"id","text"
0,"This process, however, afforded me no means of ascertaining the dimensions of my dungeon; as I might make its circuit, and return to the point whence I set out, without being aware of the fact; so perfectly uniform seemed the wall."
1,It never once occurred to me that the fumbling might be a mere mistake.
2,"In his left hand was a gold snuff box, from which, as he capered down the hill, cutting all manner of fantastic steps, he took snuff incessantly with an air of the greatest possible self satisfaction."
3,"How lovely is spring As we looked from Windsor Terrace on the sixteen fertile counties spread beneath, speckled by happy cottages and wealthier towns, all looked as in former years, heart cheering and fair."
4,"Finding nothing else, not even gold, the Superintendent abandoned his attempts; but a perplexed look occasionally steals over his countenance as he sits thinking at his desk."
5,"A youth passed in solitude, my best years spent under your gentle and feminine fosterage, has so refined the groundwork of my character that I cannot overcome an intense distaste to the usual brutality exercised on board ship: I have never believed it to be necessary, and when I heard of a mariner equally noted for his kindliness of heart and the respect and obedience paid to him by his crew, I felt myself peculiarly fortunate in being able to secure his services."
6,"The astronomer, perhaps, at this point, took refuge in the suggestion of non luminosity; and here analogy was suddenly let fall."
7,The surcingle hung in ribands from my body.
8,"I knew that you could not say to yourself 'stereotomy' without being brought to think of atomies, and thus of the theories of Epicurus; and since, when we discussed this subject not very long ago, I mentioned to you how singularly, yet with how little notice, the vague guesses of that noble Greek had met with confirmation in the late nebular cosmogony, I felt that you could not avoid casting your eyes upward to the great nebula in Orion, and I certainly expected that you would do so."
9,"I confess that neither the structure of languages, nor the code of governments, nor the politics of various states possessed attractions for me."
10,"He shall find that I can feel my injuries; he shall learn to dread my revenge"" A few days after he arrived."
11,"Here we barricaded ourselves, and, for the present were secure."
12,Herbert West needed fresh bodies because his life work was the reanimation of the dead.
13,"The farm like grounds extended back very deeply up the hill, almost to Wheaton Street."
14,But a glance will show the fallacy of this idea.
15,"He had escaped me, and I must commence a destructive and almost endless journey across the mountainous ices of the ocean, amidst cold that few of the inhabitants could long endure and which I, the native of a genial and sunny climate, could not hope to survive."
16,"To these speeches they gave, of course, their own interpretation; fancying, no doubt, that at all events I should come into possession of vast quantities of ready money; and provided I paid them all I owed, and a trifle more, in consideration of their services, I dare say they cared very little what became of either my soul or my carcass."
17,"Her native sprightliness needed no undue excitement, and her placid heart reposed contented on my love, the well being of her children, and the beauty of surrounding nature."
18,"I even went so far as to speak of a slightly hectic cough with which, at one time, I had been troubled of a chronic rheumatism of a twinge of hereditary gout and, in conclusion, of the disagreeable and inconvenient, but hitherto carefully concealed, weakness of my eyes."
19,"His facial aspect, too, was remarkable for its maturity; for though he shared his mother's and grandfather's chinlessness, his firm and precociously shaped nose united with the expression of his large, dark, almost Latin eyes to give him an air of quasi adulthood and well nigh preternatural intelligence."
20,"Now the net work was not permanently fastened to the hoop, but attached by a series of running loops or nooses."
21,"It was not that the sounds were hideous, for they were not; but that they held vibrations suggesting nothing on this globe of earth, and that at certain intervals they assumed a symphonic quality which I could hardly conceive as produced by one player."
22,"On every hand was a wilderness of balconies, of verandas, of minarets, of shrines, and fantastically carved oriels."
23,"With how deep a spirit of wonder and perplexity was I wont to regard him from our remote pew in the gallery, as, with step solemn and slow, he ascended the pulpit This reverend man, with countenance so demurely benign, with robes so glossy and so clerically flowing, with wig so minutely powdered, so rigid and so vast, could this be he who, of late, with sour visage, and in snuffy habiliments, administered, ferule in hand, the Draconian laws of the academy?"
24,These bizarre attempts at explanation were followed by others equally bizarre.
25,"For many prodigies and signs had taken place, and far and wide, over sea and land, the black wings of the Pestilence were spread abroad."
26,"All that as yet can fairly be said to be known is, that 'Pure gold can be made at will, and very readily from lead in connection with certain other substances, in kind and in proportions, unknown.' Speculation, of course, is busy as to the immediate and ultimate results of this discovery a discovery which few thinking persons will hesitate in referring to an increased interest in the matter of gold generally, by the late developments in California; and this reflection brings us inevitably to another the exceeding inopportuneness of Von Kempelen's analysis."
27,"I seemed to be upon the verge of comprehension without power to comprehend men, at times, find themselves upon the brink of remembrance without being able, in the end, to remember."
28,"Our compasses, depth gauges, and other delicate instruments were ruined; so that henceforth our only reckoning would be guesswork, based on our watches, the calendar, and our apparent drift as judged by any objects we might spy through the portholes or from the conning tower."
29,"This the young warriors took back with them to Sarnath as a symbol of conquest over the old gods and beings of Ib, and a sign of leadership in Mnar."
30,Meantime the whole Paradise of Arnheim bursts upon the view.
31,"I was rich and young, and had a guardian appointed for me; and all about me would act as if I were one of their great society, while I must keep the secret that I really was cut off from them for ever."
32,"We could make out little by the dim light, but they seemed to contain prophecies, detailed relations of events but lately passed; names, now well known, but of modern date; and often exclamations of exultation or woe, of victory or defeat, were traced on their thin scant pages."
33,Even now They talked in Their tombs.
34,"Sheehan especially did they ply with inquiries, yet without eliciting any information of value concerning Old Bugs."
35,"He cried aloud once, and a little later gave a gasp that was more terrible than a cry."
36,"The old tracks crossed River Street at grade, and at once veered off into a region increasingly rural and with less and less of Innsmouth's abhorrent fishy odour."
37,"His soul overflowed with ardent affections, and his friendship was of that devoted and wondrous nature that the world minded teach us to look for only in the imagination."
38,"After the first start, he replaced the tissue wrapping around the portrait, as if to shield it from the sordidness of the place."
39,"""The present peculiar condition of affairs at court, and especially of those intrigues in which D is known to be involved, would render the instant availability of the document its susceptibility of being produced at a moment's notice a point of nearly equal importance with its possession."""
40,"Wilbur's growth was indeed phenomenal, for within three months of his birth he had attained a size and muscular power not usually found in infants under a full year of age."
41,"Pausing, I succeeded with difficulty in raising it, whereupon there was revealed a black aperture, exhaling noxious fumes which caused my torch to sputter, and disclosing in the unsteady glare the top of a flight of stone steps."
42,"It was all mud an' water, an' the sky was dark, an' the rain was wipin' aout all tracks abaout as fast as could be; but beginnin' at the glen maouth, whar the trees had moved, they was still some o' them awful prints big as bar'ls like he seen Monday."""
43,"The visits of Merrival to Windsor, before frequent, had suddenly ceased."
44,"It is not to be supposed, however, that the great Underduk suffered this impertinence on the part of the little old man to pass off with impunity."
45,I need not tell you how sceptical I have hitherto been on the topic of the soul's immortality.
46,"I often compared myself to them, and finding that my chief superiority consisted in power, I soon persuaded myself that it was in power only that I was inferior to the chiefest potentates of the earth."
47,"And the children's children, and the newcomers' children, grew up."
48,"Dr. Johnson, as I beheld him, was a full, pursy Man, very ill drest, and of slovenly Aspect."
49,"Presently the murmur of water fell gently upon my ear and in a few moments afterward, as I turned with the road somewhat more abruptly than hitherto, I became aware that a building of some kind lay at the foot of a gentle declivity just before me."
50,Ellison was remarkable in the continuous profusion of good gifts lavished upon him by fortune.
51,"I still continued in the plane of the elipse, but made little progress to the eastward."
52,"It was useless to provide many things, for we should find abundant provision in every town."
53,"They fly quickly over the snow in their sledges; the motion is pleasant, and, in my opinion, far more agreeable than that of an English stagecoach."
54,"I pointed to the spot where he had disappeared, and we followed the track with boats; nets were cast, but in vain."
55,"I have indistinct recollections of a great storm some time after I reached the boat; at any rate, I know that I heard peals of thunder and other tones which Nature utters only in her wildest moods."
56,"There had seemed to be no one in the courtyard below, and I hoped there would be a chance to get away before the spreading of a general alarm."
57,"Mein Gott do you take me vor a shicken?"" ""No oh no"" I replied, much alarmed, ""you are no chicken certainly not."""
58,"Perpetual fear had jaundiced his complexion, and shrivelled his whole person."
59,The sun set; the atmosphere grew dim and the evening star no longer shone companionless.
60,"The rain ceased; the clouds sunk behind the horizon; it was now evening, and the sun descended swiftly the western sky."
61,"Nothing, however, occurred except some hill noises; and when the day came there were many who hoped that the new horror had gone as swiftly as it had come."
62,"The state rooms were sufficiently roomy, and each had two berths, one above the other."
63,"It was getting dark, and the ancient roofs and chimney pots outside looked very queer through the bull's eye window panes."
64,"They were marched to various parts of the southern counties, quartered in deserted villages, a part were sent back to their own island, while the season of winter so far revived our energy, that the passes of the country were defended, and any increase of numbers prohibited."
65,"We suffered no little from cold, and the dampness of the atmosphere was most unpleasant; but the ample space in the car enabled us to lie down, and by means of cloaks and a few blankets, we did sufficiently well."
66,"I dared, I conquered them all, till now I have sold myself to death, with the sole condition that thou shouldst follow me Fire, and war, and plague, unite for thy destruction O my Raymond, there is no safety for thee"" With an heavy heart I listened to the changes of her delirium; I made her a bed of cloaks; her violence decreased and a clammy dew stood on her brow as the paleness of death succeeded to the crimson of fever, I placed her on the cloaks."
67,"Again he seemed to be in the interior of a house an old house, apparently but the details and inhabitants were constantly changing, and he could never be certain of the faces or the furniture, or even of the room itself, since doors and windows seemed in just as great a state of flux as the more presumably mobile objects."
68,"This gentleman was clothed from head to foot in a richly embroidered black silk velvet pall, wrapped negligently around his form after the fashion of a Spanish cloak."
69,"The pigeons appeared distressed in the extreme, and struggled to escape; while the cat mewed piteously, and, with her tongue hanging out of her mouth, staggered to and fro in the car as if under the influence of poison."
70,"""And what about the window panes?"" ""They were all gone."
71,I panted I gasped for breath There could be no doubt of the design of my tormentors oh most unrelenting oh most demoniac of men I shrank from the glowing metal to the centre of the cell.
72,"With great difficulty I gained my feet, and looking dizzily around, was, at first, struck with the idea of our being among breakers; so terrific, beyond the wildest imagination, was the whirlpool of mountainous and foaming ocean within which we were engulfed."
73,The next morning I delivered my letters of introduction and paid a visit to some of the principal professors.
74,"Nor did Raymond make an end without drawing in vivid and glowing colours, the splendour of a kingdom, in opposition to the commercial spirit of republicanism."
75,"How this celebrated Magazine can sustain its evidently tremendous expenses, is more than we can understand."
76,"In a week or two it had visibly faded, and in the course of a few months it was hardly discernible with the naked eye."""
77,"The stranger learned about twenty words at the first lesson; most of them, indeed, were those which I had before understood, but I profited by the others."
78,"Each people looked on the coming struggle as that which would be to a great degree decisive; as, in case of victory, the next step would be the siege of Constantinople by the Greeks."
79,"""But could not the cavity be detected by sounding?"""
80,"My lieutenant, for instance, is a man of wonderful courage and enterprise; he is madly desirous of glory, or rather, to word my phrase more characteristically, of advancement in his profession."
81,Within twenty four hours that machine near the table will generate waves acting on unrecognised sense organs that exist in us as atrophied or rudimentary vestiges.
82,"""Everybody got aout o' the idee o' dyin' excep' in canoe wars with the other islanders, or as sacrifices to the sea gods daown below, or from snake bite or plague or sharp gallopin' ailments or somethin' afore they cud take to the water but simply looked forrad to a kind o' change that wa'n't a bit horrible arter a while."
83,The lips were of the usual marble pallor.
84,"""That is absolutely needless,"" replied G ."
85,"Ahead lay sparse grass and scrub blueberry bushes, and beyond them the naked rock of the crag and the thin peak of the dreaded grey cottage."
86,"To be near him, to be loved by him, to feel him again her own, was the limit of her desires."
87,"The sky was serene; and, as I was unable to rest, I resolved to visit the spot where my poor William had been murdered."
88,"I say ""thing"" be it observed for they tell me the Latin for it is rem."
89,"All that he said threw greatly into the shade Cornelius Agrippa, Albertus Magnus, and Paracelsus, the lords of my imagination; but by some fatality the overthrow of these men disinclined me to pursue my accustomed studies."
90,"The ex queen gives me Idris; Adrian is totally unfitted to succeed to the earldom, and that earldom in my hands becomes a kingdom."
91,"The pupils, too, upon any accession or diminution of light, underwent contraction or dilation, just such as is observed in the feline tribe."
92,"""Keep up the largest branch the one on this side,"" said Legrand."
93,"And quivering awhile among the draperies of the room, it at length rested in full view upon the surface of the door of brass."
94,"Maternal affection had not rendered Idris selfish; at the beginning of our calamity she had, with thoughtless enthusiasm, devoted herself to the care of the sick and helpless."
95,"He came like a protecting spirit to the poor girl, who committed herself to his care; and after the interment of his friend he conducted her to Geneva and placed her under the protection of a relation."
96,"I had expected some extravagant proposition, and remained silent awhile, collecting my thoughts that I might the better combat her fanciful scheme."
97,"Matters had now assumed a really serious aspect, and I resolved to call at once upon my particular friend, Mr. Theodore Sinivate; for I knew that here at least I should get something like definite information."
98,"The system had its disadvantages, and even its dangers."
99,"Everyone seemed inclined to be silent now, as though holding a secret fear."
100,"They still appeared in public together, and lived under the same roof."
101,"""But, my dear fellow, you are joking then,"" said I, ""this is a very passable skull indeed, I may say that it is a very excellent skull, according to the vulgar notions about such specimens of physiology and your scarabæus must be the queerest scarabæus in the world if it resembles it."
102,"I vaow afur Gawd, I dun't know what he wants nor what he's a tryin' to dew."""
103,"He began to answer with violence: ""Yes, yes, I hate you You are my bane, my poison, my disgust Oh No"" And then his manner changed, and fixing his eyes on me with an expression that convulsed every nerve and member of my frame ""you are none of all these; you are my light, my only one, my life."
104,"I shivered as I wondered why I did not reach the light, and would have looked down had I dared."
105,"The slow ravages of disease are not pleasant to watch, but in my case there was something subtler and more puzzling in the background."
106,"As the Comte and his associates turned away from the lowly abode of the alchemists, the form of Charles Le Sorcier appeared through the trees."
107,"As I have said, it happened when we were in the medical school, where West had already made himself notorious through his wild theories on the nature of death and the possibility of overcoming it artificially."
108,"Besides, Perdita was with him in his retirement; she saw the moodiness that succeeded to this forced hilarity; she marked his disturbed sleep, his painful irritability once she had seen his tears hers had scarce ceased to flow, since she had beheld the big drops which disappointed pride had caused to gather in his eye, but which pride was unable to dispel."
109,"I packed up my chemical instruments and the materials I had collected, resolving to finish my labours in some obscure nook in the northern highlands of Scotland."
110,The ideas of my friend may be summed up in a few words.
111,A definite point among the stars had a claim on him and was calling him.
112,I believe I shall be forced to call them both out.
113,"God knows what that world can have been, or where he ever glimpsed the blasphemous shapes that loped and trotted and crawled through it; but whatever the baffling source of his images, one thing was plain."
114,"Yet all these appearances have been given I beg pardon will be given by the learned of future ages, to the Ashimah of the Syrians."
115,My skin was embrowned by the sun; my step was firm with conscious power.
116,"It was in these slums along Main Street that I would find the old Georgian churches, but they were all long abandoned."
117,"""I believe, sir, you have forgotten to pay for your brandy and water."""
118,"I started forward and exclaimed, ""Villain Before you sign my death warrant, be sure that you are yourself safe."""
119,"Only his eyes stayed whole, and they glared with a propulsive, dilated incandescence which grew as the face around them charred and dwindled."
120,"He determined to extract and condense all of glory, power, and achievement, which might have resulted from a long reign, into the three years of his Protectorate."
121,There was no advertisement of the picking up of this boat.
122,"Baffled, the excavators sought a conference with the Superintendent, who ordered great lengths of rope to be taken to the pit, and spliced and lowered without cessation till a bottom might be discovered."
123,"They had received orders that if I were again taken, I should be brought to the Earl; and his lenity made them expect a conclusion which they considered ill befitting my crime."
124,Then the lean Nith remarked that no one had seen the old man or his wife since the night the cats were away.
125,"Six years had elapsed, passed in a dream but for one indelible trace, and I stood in the same place where I had last embraced my father before my departure for Ingolstadt."
126,"""But that Kidd's accumulations were immense, is well known."
127,"And as I looked, I beheld the head rise, the black, liquid, and deep sunken eyes open in terror, and the thin, shadowed lips part as if for a scream too frightful to be uttered."
128,"And from their high summits, one by one, drop everlasting dews."
129,"I had now spent many hours in tears and mournful meditation; it was past twelve o'clock; all was at peace in the house, and the gentle air that stole in at my window did not rustle the leaves of the twining plants that shadowed it."
130,"With the traditionally receptive ears of the small boy, I learned much; though an habitual secretiveness caused me to tell no one of my information or my resolve."
131,"He did not himself understand these words, or know why certain things made him feel certain emotions; but fancied that some unremembered dream must be responsible."
132,"Look, I weep: for more than two years I have never enjoyed one moment free from anguish."
133,"It is indeed demonstrable that every such impulse given the air, must, in the end, impress every individual thing that exists within the universe; and the being of infinite understanding the being whom we have imagined might trace the remote undulations of the impulse trace them upward and onward in their influences upon all particles of an matter upward and onward for ever in their modifications of old forms or, in other words, in their creation of new until he found them reflected unimpressive at last back from the throne of the Godhead."
134,Justine was called on for her defence.
135,"His engagement broken, Galpin moved east to begin life anew; but before long, Appletonians heard of his dismissal in disgrace from New York University, where he had obtained an instructorship in English."
136,"He had a narrow head, bulging, watery blue eyes that seemed never to wink, a flat nose, a receding forehead and chin, and singularly undeveloped ears."
137,"It will be remembered, that, in the earliest stage of my speculations upon the possibility of a passage to the moon, the existence, in its vicinity, of an atmosphere, dense in proportion to the bulk of the planet, had entered largely into my calculations; this too in spite of many theories to the contrary, and, it may be added, in spite of a general disbelief in the existence of any lunar atmosphere at all."
138,My words flowed spontaneously my utterance was firm and quick.
139,"Only a very rare affliction, of course, could bring about such vast and radical anatomical changes in a single individual after maturity changes involving osseous factors as basic as the shape of the skull but then, even this aspect was no more baffling and unheard of than the visible features of the malady as a whole."
140,"As I fled from that accursed castle along the bog's edge I heard a new sound; common, yet unlike any I had heard before at Kilderry."
141,"He did not try to navigate after the first bold flight, for the reaction had taken something out of his soul."
142,"A bear once, attempting to swim from Lofoden to Moskoe, was caught by the stream and borne down, while he roared terribly, so as to be heard on shore."
143,"He obeyed her injunctions, and passed a year in exile in Cumberland."
144,"He reverted to his past life, his successes in Greece, his favour at home."
145,"Murderers, casting it in, would not have failed to attach a weight."
146,"After each short and inevitable sleep I seemed older, whilst my friend aged with a rapidity almost shocking."
147,"I look on the hands which executed the deed; I think on the heart in which the imagination of it was conceived and long for the moment when these hands will meet my eyes, when that imagination will haunt my thoughts no more."
148,Horrible sights were shaped to me in the turbid cloud that hovered over the city; and my only relief was derived from the struggles I made to approach the gate.
149,"In order to reach it, he said, he would soar through abysses of emptiness, burning every obstacle that stood in his way."
150,"""Pierre Moreau, tobacconist, deposes that he has been in the habit of selling small quantities of tobacco and snuff to Madame L'Espanaye for nearly four years."
151,I still quickened my pace.
152,"I resolved to fly far from the scene of my misfortunes; but to me, hated and despised, every country must be equally horrible."
153,"It was in the spirit of this wisdom that, among the ancient Hebrews, it was believed the gates of Heaven would be inevitably opened to that sinner, or saint, who, with good lungs and implicit confidence, should vociferate the word ""Amen"" It was in the spirit of this wisdom that, when a great plague raged at Athens, and every means had been in vain attempted for its removal, Epimenides, as Laertius relates, in his second book, of that philosopher, advised the erection of a shrine and temple ""to the proper God."" LYTTLETON BARRY."
154,"I feel confident he never would have dreamed of taking up his residence in Alexander the Great o nopolis had he been aware that, in Alexander the Great o nopolis, there lived a gentleman named John Smith if I rightly remember, who for many years had there quietly grown fat in editing and publishing the 'Alexander the Great o nopolis Gazette.'"
155,I will protect the first the latter I commit to your charge.
156,"Miserable himself that he may render no other wretched, he ought to die."
157,The police heard a shot in the old Tillinghast house and found us there Tillinghast dead and me unconscious.
158,It is even possible that the train of my ideas would never have received the fatal impulse that led to my ruin.
159,"I had not entered the army on my own initiative, but rather as a natural result of the enlistment of the man whose indispensable assistant I was the celebrated Boston surgical specialist, Dr. Herbert West."
160,"It was my last link with a chapter of life forever closed, and I valued it highly."
161,The longer I meditated upon these the more intense grew the interest which had been excited within me.
162,"She often repined; but her trust in the singleness of his affection was undisturbed; and, when they were together, unchecked by fear, she opened her heart to the fullest delight."
163,To me there was nothing grotesque in the bones and skeletons that strowed some of the stone crypts deep down among the foundations.
164,"He was full of thought, and remained silent during a considerable part of our ride; at length he said, ""I must apologize to you for my abstraction; the truth is, Ryland's motion comes on to night, and I am considering my reply."""
165,"The Thing cannot be described there is no language for such abysms of shrieking and immemorial lunacy, such eldritch contradictions of all matter, force, and cosmic order."
166,"To add to our dilemma, we found the pumps choked and nearly useless."
167,By these means for they were ignorant men I found little difficulty in gaining them over to my purpose.
168,"It was queer damnably queer and my uncle spoke almost sheepishly, as if half expecting not to be believed, when he declared that of the strange faces many had unmistakably borne the features of the Harris family."
169,"For three months a night has not passed, during the greater part of which I have not been engaged, personally, in ransacking the D Hotel."
170,"Raymond did not wonder, that, thus situated, the artist had shrunk from notice, but he did not for this alter his resolve."
171,"Not any more does he long for the magic of farther hills, or sigh for secrets that peer like green reefs from a bottomless sea."
172,"But while I endured punishment and pain in their defence with the spirit of an hero, I claimed as my reward their praise and obedience."
173,I must collect my thoughts.
174,"Never imposing upon any one myself, I suffered no one to play the possum with me."
175,"""Not so,"" said I, ""though I confess that my thoughts are not occupied as pleasantly as yours are."
176,"Then, as I remained, paralysed with fear, he found his voice and in his dying breath screamed forth those words which have ever afterward haunted my days and my nights."
177,"""Surely it is not the custom of Englishmen to receive strangers so inhospitably."""
178,"They remained confined for five months before the trial took place, the result of which deprived them of their fortune and condemned them to a perpetual exile from their native country."
179,"they never stopped swimmin' in an' aout o' the river from that cursed reef o' Satan an' more an' more attic winders got a boarded up, an' more an' more noises was heerd in haouses as wa'n't s'posed to hev nobody in 'em. . . ."
180,"At Lawrence he had been prominent in the mock fraternity of ""Tappa Tappa Keg"", where he was the wildest and merriest of the wild and merry young roysterers; but this immature, collegiate frivolity did not satisfy him."
181,"The limbs, save for their black fur, roughly resembled the hind legs of prehistoric earth's giant saurians; and terminated in ridgy veined pads that were neither hooves nor claws."
182,"These are my enticements, and they are sufficient to conquer all fear of danger or death and to induce me to commence this laborious voyage with the joy a child feels when he embarks in a little boat, with his holiday mates, on an expedition of discovery up his native river."
183,"There were adequate bolts on the two lateral doors to connecting rooms, and these I proceeded to fasten."
184,"His supposition was that ""a well taught boy very thin and tall of his age sufficiently so that he could be concealed in a drawer almost immediately under the chess board"" played the game of chess and effected all the evolutions of the Automaton."
185,"Interspersed about the room, crossing and recrossing in endless irregularity, were innumerable benches and desks, black, ancient, and time worn, piled desperately with much bethumbed books, and so beseamed with initial letters, names at full length, grotesque figures, and other multiplied efforts of the knife, as to have entirely lost what little of original form might have been their portion in days long departed."
186,"If manly courage and resistance can save us, we will be saved."
187,"The silver hair and benevolent countenance of the aged cottager won my reverence, while the gentle manners of the girl enticed my love."
188,I commenced by inuring my body to hardship.
189,But these absurdities I must not pause to detail.
190,"I travelled only at night, fearful of encountering the visage of a human being."
191,"Scarcely had we recovered our senses, before the foretopsail went into shreds, when we got up a storm stay sail and with this did pretty well for some hours, the ship heading the sea much more steadily than before."
192,The lower portion of the other is hidden from view by the head of the unwieldy bedstead which is thrust close up against it.
193,"Adrian had introduced systematic modes of proceeding in the metropolis, which, while they were unable to stop the progress of death, yet prevented other evils, vice and folly, from rendering the awful fate of the hour still more tremendous."
194,"""At a quarter past eight, being no longer able to draw breath without the most intolerable pain, I proceeded forthwith to adjust around the car the apparatus belonging to the condenser."
195,"The professor had been stricken whilst returning from the Newport boat; falling suddenly, as witnesses said, after having been jostled by a nautical looking negro who had come from one of the queer dark courts on the precipitous hillside which formed a short cut from the waterfront to the deceased's home in Williams Street."
196,"Suddenly the wretch, animated with his last burst of strength, raised his hideous head from the damp and sunken pavement."
197,"""Ha ha ha"" said that gentleman ""he he he hi hi hi ho ho ho hu hu hu hu very good indeed You must not be astonished, mon ami; our friend here is a wit a drole you must not understand him to the letter."""
198,"It is true that I may not find an opportunity of transmitting it to the world, but I will not fall to make the endeavour."
199,"I repeat that in landscape arrangements, or collocations alone, is the physical Nature susceptible of ""exaltation"" and that, therefore, her susceptibility of improvement at this one point, was a mystery which, hitherto I had been unable to solve."
200,"He also cut timber and began to repair the unused parts of his house a spacious, peaked roofed affair whose rear end was buried entirely in the rocky hillside, and whose three least ruined ground floor rooms had always been sufficient for himself and his daughter."
201,"In the meantime it was folly to grieve, or to think."
202,"The extreme darkness of the stage, whose only light was received from the fire under the cauldron, joined to a kind of mist that floated about it, rendered the unearthly shapes of the witches obscure and shadowy."
203,"Sheehan's is the acknowledged centre to Chicago's subterranean traffic in liquor and narcotics, and as such has a certain dignity which extends even to the unkempt attachés of the place; but there was until lately one who lay outside the pale of that dignity one who shared the squalor and filth, but not the importance, of Sheehan's."
204,"Perhaps the gradation of his copy rendered it not so readily perceptible; or, more possibly, I owed my security to the master air of the copyist, who, disdaining the letter, which in a painting is all the obtuse can see, gave but the full spirit of his original for my individual contemplation and chagrin."
205,It was perhaps an effect of such surroundings that my mind early acquired a shade of melancholy.
206,"""You ought to hear, though, what some of the old timers tell about the black reef off the coast Devil Reef, they call it."
207,The prince had provided all the appliances of pleasure.
208,"For a week I tasted to the full the joys of that charnel conviviality which I must not describe, when the thing happened, and I was borne away to this accursed abode of sorrow and monotony."
209,"He see enough, I tell ye, Mis' Corey This dun't mean no good, an' I think as all the men folks ought to git up a party an' do suthin'."
210,"No recognised school of sculpture had animated this terrible object, yet centuries and even thousands of years seemed recorded in its dim and greenish surface of unplaceable stone."
211,"For a long time I dared not hope; but when his unobstructed breathing and the moisture that suffused his forehead, were tokens no longer to be mistaken of the departure of mortal malady, I ventured to whisper the news of the change to Idris, and at length succeeded in persuading her that I spoke truth."
212,"He comprehended, moreover, the true character, the august aims, the supreme majesty and dignity of the poetic sentiment."
213,Else there is no immortality for man.
214,"I laid the second tier, and the third, and the fourth; and then I heard the furious vibrations of the chain."
215,"All in all, he became a disconcerting and even gruesome companion; yet in my gratitude for his healing I could not well abandon him to the strangers around him, and was careful to dust his room and attend to his needs each day, muffled in a heavy ulster which I bought especially for the purpose."
216,I longed for the love which had before filled it to overflowing.
217,"It was a lambent glow of this sort which always played about the old woman and the small furry thing in those lighter, sharper dreams which prefaced his plunge into unknown abysses, and the thought that a wakeful second person could see the dream luminance was utterly beyond sane harbourage."
218,"My first thought was Perdita; to her I must return; her I must support, drawing such food from despair as might best sustain her wounded heart; recalling her from the wild excesses of grief, by the austere laws of duty, and the soft tenderness of regret."
219,"He owned affinity not only with mankind, but all nature was akin to him; the mountains and sky were his friends; the winds of heaven and the offspring of earth his playmates; while he the focus only of this mighty mirror, felt his life mingle with the universe of existence."
220,Uninquiring souls let this occurrence pass as one of the major clashes in a spasmodic war on liquor.
221,"The rigging was found to be ill fitted, and greatly strained; and on the third day of the blow, about five in the afternoon, our mizzen mast, in a heavy lurch to windward, went by the board."
222,"Alfred stood immoveable before him, his whole attention absorbed."
223,"Beyond it the rusted railway and the Rowley road led off through a flat, marshy terrain dotted with islets of higher and dryer scrub grown land."
224,"Williamson records and traditions were supplied in abundance by my grandfather; though for Orne material I had to depend on my uncle Walter, who put at my disposal the contents of all his files, including notes, letters, cuttings, heirlooms, photographs, and miniatures."
225,"A closer scrutiny, however, satisfied me that it was intended for a kid."" ""Ha ha"" said I, ""to be sure I have no right to laugh at you a million and a half of money is too serious a matter for mirth but you are not about to establish a third link in your chain you will not find any especial connexion between your pirates and a goat pirates, you know, have nothing to do with goats; they appertain to the farming interest."""
226,"It is no cause for wonder, surely, that even a gang of blackguards should make haste to get home, when a wide river is to be crossed in small boats, when storm impends, and when night approaches."
227,"The connexion of the two events had about it so much of the palpable, that the true wonder would have been a failure of the populace to appreciate and to seize it."
228,"When I heard the fears which had driven the people from Kilderry I laughed as loudly as my friend had laughed, for these fears were of the vaguest, wildest, and most absurd character."
229,"Leave me; I am inexorable."""
230,I listened to my father in silence and remained for some time incapable of offering any reply.
231,"You hate me, but your abhorrence cannot equal that with which I regard myself."
232,"I had been, albeit without definite reason, instinctively on my guard and that was to my advantage in the new and real crisis, whatever it might turn out to be."
233,"I assured my patron that, if this was all, I was perfectly resigned to the task of playing Thomas Hawk."
234,"A large bruise was discovered upon the pit of the stomach, produced, apparently, by the pressure of a knee."
235,"Mem he'll answer, too."
236,"Let a composition be defective, let an emendation be wrought in its mere arrangement of form; let this emendation be submitted to every artist in the world; by each will its necessity be admitted."
237,"The hangman, however, adjusted the noose about my neck."
238,Then with utter and horrifying suddenness we heard a frightful sound from below.
239,"The boat, however, must not be detained."
240,"We started about four o'clock Legrand, Jupiter, the dog, and myself."
241,What do maps and records and guide books really tell of the North End? Bah At a guess I'll guarantee to lead you to thirty or forty alleys and networks of alleys north of Prince Street that aren't suspected by ten living beings outside of the foreigners that swarm them.
242,It would be useless to describe the playing of Erich Zann on that dreadful night.
243,"In this particular instance, it will be understood as most probable, that she proceeded upon a route of more than average diversity from her accustomed ones."
244,"Having noticed these particulars, and some others, I again turned my eyes upon the glorious prospect below, and soon became absorbed in contemplation."
245,Many of the vessels fired signal guns; and in all we were saluted with loud cheers which we heard with surprising distinctness and the waving of caps and handkerchiefs.
246,The party spread themselves and hurried from room to room.
247,"He made a vow against love and its train of struggles, disappointment and remorse, and sought in mere sensual enjoyment, a remedy for the injurious inroads of passion."
248,After that Johansen only brooded over the idol in the cabin and attended to a few matters of food for himself and the laughing maniac by his side.
249,"The latter examined it carefully and deposited it in his pocket book; then, unlocking an escritoire, took thence a letter and gave it to the Prefect."
250,"I retired early and full of dread, and for a long time could not sleep in the uncanny silence of the tower."
251,"I provided myself with a sum of money, together with a few jewels which had belonged to my mother, and departed."
252,"I rushed towards the window, and drawing a pistol from my bosom, fired; but he eluded me, leaped from his station, and running with the swiftness of lightning, plunged into the lake."
253,"Xh, pxh, pxh, Jxhn, dxn't dx sx Yxu've gxt tx gx, yxu knxw, sx gx at xnce, and dxn't gx slxw; fxr nxbxdy xwns yxu here, yxu knxw."
254,You would have sworn that the writer had been born and brought up in a coffin.
255,"""There are a prodigious number of stately palaces."""
256,"She might have heard of my return from London, and my visit to Bolter's Lock, which, connected with my continued absence, might tend greatly to alarm her."
257,"This man, whose name was Beaufort, was of a proud and unbending disposition and could not bear to live in poverty and oblivion in the same country where he had formerly been distinguished for his rank and magnificence."
258,"We found, on each side of the humid pathway, ""dry land for the sole of the foot."""
259,"I dare not ask you to do what I think right, for I may still be misled by passion."
260,"Refusing to flee, I watched it fade and as I watched I felt that it was in turn watching me greedily with eyes more imaginable than visible."
261,"""Then up with you as soon as possible, for it will soon be too dark to see what we are about."""
262,"Since then I must be an object of indifference or contempt to her, better, far better avoid her, nor expose myself before her and the scornful world to the chance of playing the mad game of a fond, foolish Icarus."
263,I shewed her the dangers which her children incurred during her absence; and she at length agreed not to go beyond the inclosure of the forest.
264,The entire surface of this metallic enclosure was rudely daubed in all the hideous and repulsive devices to which the charnel superstition of the monks has given rise.
265,"That scene itself must have corresponded to the sealed loft overhead, which had begun to attack his imagination so violently, but later impressions were faint and hazy."
266,"""Mille tonnerres"" ejaculated the Prince de Grenouille."
267,"The remains of the half finished creature, whom I had destroyed, lay scattered on the floor, and I almost felt as if I had mangled the living flesh of a human being."
268,"It was plain that the owner had come home; but he had not come from the land, nor from any balloon or airship that could be imagined."
269,Others thought and still think he'd found an old pirate cache out on Devil Reef.
270,"This is what I saw in the glass: A thin, dark man of medium stature attired in the clerical garb of the Anglican church, apparently about thirty, and with rimless, steel bowed glasses glistening beneath a sallow, olive forehead of abnormal height."
271,Then again the kindly influence ceased to act I found myself fettered again to grief and indulging in all the misery of reflection.
272,"As the sailor looked in, the gigantic animal had seized Madame L'Espanaye by the hair, which was loose, as she had been combing it, and was flourishing the razor about her face, in imitation of the motions of a barber."
273,"His feelings are forever on the stretch; and when he begins to sink into repose, he finds himself obliged to quit that on which he rests in pleasure for something new, which again engages his attention, and which also he forsakes for other novelties."
274,"""The father of Safie had been the cause of their ruin."
275,The matter was impossible.
276,"""No"" said the Baron, turning abruptly toward the speaker, ""dead say you?"" ""It is indeed true, my lord; and, to a noble of your name, will be, I imagine, no unwelcome intelligence."""
277,"At length, one escaping through a sewer, gave freedom to all the rest."
278,"""My children,"" she said, ""my firmest hopes of future happiness were placed on the prospect of your union."
279,I mean the line Perdidit antiquum litera sonum.
280,In establishing 'The Tea Pot' he expected to have the field all to himself.
281,They would have left nothing behind them; for their number would have enabled them to carry all at once.
282,"Time, place, and circumstances rendered it a matter beyond question."
283,"He developed strange caprices, acquiring a fondness for exotic spices and Egyptian incense till his room smelled like the vault of a sepulchred Pharaoh in the Valley of Kings."
284,"They made the special effects, indeed, wrought in the fluid by special impulses, the subject of exact calculation so that it became easy to determine in what precise period an impulse of given extent would engirdle the orb, and impress for ever every atom of the atmosphere circumambient."
285,"""O yes; and for this reason I did not despair."
286,Haow'd ye like to hear what comes from that awful reef every May Eve an' Hallowmass?
287,"The alienists listened with keen attention to his words, since their curiosity had been aroused to a high pitch by the suggestive yet mostly conflicting and incoherent stories of his family and neighbours."
288,It must have been midnight at least when Birch decided he could get through the transom.
289,"I will win him to me; he shall not deny his grief to me and when I know his secret then will I pour a balm into his soul and again I shall enjoy the ravishing delight of beholding his smile, and of again seeing his eyes beam if not with pleasure at least with gentle love and thankfulness."
290,You must be careful and give the thing with a downright improviso air.
291,As my uncle began slowly and grudgingly to unwrap the things he urged me not to be shocked by the strangeness and frequent hideousness of the designs.
292,"As I looked, a subtle, curious sense of beckoning seemed superadded to the grim repulsion; and oddly enough, I found this overtone more disturbing than the primary impression."
293,"It is curious that although he differed so widely from the mass of Hispanicised and tribal Indians, Romero gave not the least impression of Caucasian blood."
294,There was Ferdinand Fitz Fossillus Feltspar.
295,"At the termination of this sentence I started, and for a moment, paused; for it appeared to me although I at once concluded that my excited fancy had deceived me it appeared to me that, from some very remote portion of the mansion, there came, indistinctly, to my ears, what might have been, in its exact similarity of character, the echo but a stifled and dull one certainly of the very cracking and ripping sound which Sir Launcelot had so particularly described."
296,"From indications afforded by the barometer, we find that, in ascensions from the surface of the earth we have, at the height of , feet, left below us about one thirtieth of the entire mass of atmospheric air, that at , we have ascended through nearly one third; and that at ,, which is not far from the elevation of Cotopaxi, we have surmounted one half the material, or, at all events, one half the ponderable, body of air incumbent upon our globe."
297,"The task seemed interminable, and I raged almost as violently as the hermit when I saw the hours slipping by in a breathless, foodless round of vain telephoning, and a hectic quest from place to place, hither and thither by subway and surface car."
298,I soon arrived at the hut: the door was ajar.
299,"Who or what then, was my great great grandmother?"
300,For a moment I was almost paralized by fear; but my energy returned and I demanded a guide to accompany me in following his steps.
301,I could with pleasure have destroyed the cottage and its inhabitants and have glutted myself with their shrieks and misery.
302,I breathed no longer.
303,existing about the moon.
304,she of the diminutive head and the gilded hair?
305,Nor was any child to be born alive in that house for a century and a half.
306,"Then, as September approached, the clouds began to clear."
307,I remembered in one of her harshest moments a quotation of mine had roused her to anger and disdain.
308,"""Its adaptation to the eyes which were to behold it upon earth."""
309,"At times her screams became insupportable, and for long periods she would utter shrieking horrors which necessitated her son's temporary residence with his cousin, Peleg Harris, in Presbyterian Lane near the new college building."
310,There had been nothing like order or arrangement.
311,"It was the pictorial carving, however, that did most to hold me spellbound."
312,"The grave was not very deep, but fully as good as that of the previous specimen the thing which had risen of itself and uttered a sound."
313,"About two hours after this occurrence we heard the ground sea, and before night the ice broke and freed our ship."
314,"Accordingly, I was no sooner seated at the card table, with my pretty hostess for a vis à vis, than I propounded those questions the solution of which had become a matter so essential to my peace."
315,The company followed our example without stint.
316,"I will not pursue these guesses for I have no right to call them more since the shades of reflection upon which they are based are scarcely of sufficient depth to be appreciable by my own intellect, and since I could not pretend to make them intelligible to the understanding of another."
317,The daughter lay prostrate and motionless; she had swooned.
318,"The abysses were by no means vacant, being crowded with indescribably angled masses of alien hued substance, some of which appeared to be organic while others seemed inorganic."
319,"Past the churchyard, where there were no houses, I could see over the hill's summit and watch the glimmer of stars on the harbour, though the town was invisible in the dark."
320,"Whenever it fell upon me, my blood ran cold; and so by degrees very gradually I made up my mind to take the life of the old man, and thus rid myself of the eye forever."
321,"Upon this occasion we should have been driven out to sea in spite of everything, for the whirlpools threw us round and round so violently, that, at length, we fouled our anchor and dragged it if it had not been that we drifted into one of the innumerable cross currents here to day and gone to morrow which drove us under the lee of Flimen, where, by good luck, we brought up."
322,"Disappointment and sickness have hitherto held dominion over me; twin born with me, my would, was for ever enchained by the shall not, of these my tyrants."
323,The perfume in my nostrils died away.
324,Adrian led the troops.
325,The tension on our part became very great.
326,"Yet she smiled on and still on, uncomplainingly, because she saw that the painter who had high renown took a fervid and burning pleasure in his task, and wrought day and night to depict her who so loved him, yet who grew daily more dispirited and weak."
327,"You on earth have unwittingly felt its distant presence you who without knowing idly gave to its blinking beacon the name of Algol, the Daemon Star."
328,"why string my nerves and renew my wearied efforts ah, why?"
329,"Again a furtive trying of a bolted connecting door, and again a receding creaking."
330,"The sun arose with a sickly yellow lustre, and clambered a very few degrees above the horizon emitting no decisive light."
331,"The weather was cold; and, upon quitting my own room, I had thrown a cloak over my dressing wrapper, putting it off upon reaching the scene of play."
332,"""How much was the reward offered, did you say?"" asked Dupin."
333,"I was still alone, for as much as I feared the unknown horror I sought, there was more fear in the thought of telling anybody."
334,"I do not weep or sigh; but I must reason with myself, and force myself to feel sorrow and despair."
335,"Our conversation was now long, earnest, uninterrupted, and totally unreserved."
336,He knew things he didn't dare put into that stupid Magnalia or that puerile Wonders of the Invisible World.
337,"Briden looked back and went mad, laughing shrilly as he kept on laughing at intervals till death found him one night in the cabin whilst Johansen was wandering deliriously."
338,"Moreover, my occupations have been always made to chime in with the ordinary habitudes of my fellowmen."
339,"To this man Iranon spoke, as to so many others: ""Canst thou tell me where I may find Aira, the city of marble and beryl, where flows the hyaline Nithra and where the falls of the tiny Kra sing to verdant valleys and hills forested with yath trees?"""
340,"""Were I misanthropic,"" he said, ""such a locale would suit me."
341,"In my childhood the shunned house was vacant, with barren, gnarled, and terrible old trees, long, queerly pale grass, and nightmarishly misshapen weeds in the high terraced yard where birds never lingered."
342,"He found my name a good passport to preferment, and he had procured for me the situation of private secretary to the Ambassador at Vienna, where I should enter on my career under the best auspices."
343,"There were reasons why I would have been glad to let the war separate us; reasons why I found the practice of medicine and the companionship of West more and more irritating; but when he had gone to Ottawa and through a colleague's influence secured a medical commission as Major, I could not resist the imperious persuasion of one determined that I should accompany him in my usual capacity."
344,"But on you only had I any claim for pity and redress, and from you I determined to seek that justice which I vainly attempted to gain from any other being that wore the human form."
345,"I strove to think that all this grandeur was but more glaring infamy, and that, by planting his gold enwoven flag beside my tarnished and tattered banner, he proclaimed not his superiority, but his debasement."
346,I will not dwell longer than I need on these disastrous circumstances.
347,"Geographically it lay about two miles northwest of the base of Tempest Mountain, and three miles from the oak girt mansion."
348,"""D ,"" replied Dupin, ""is a desperate man, and a man of nerve."
349,"""Upon honor,"" said I. ""Nose and all?"" she asked."
350,I heard the next morning from the steward that upon his arrival he had been in a most terrible state of mind: he had passed the first night in the garden lying on the damp grass; he did not sleep but groaned perpetually.
351,Then the lock of the connecting door to my room was softly tried.
352,This had probably been done with the view of arousing me from sleep.
353,"It was at this moment that his eyes, and mine also, fell upon the scrap of parchment, which I then supposed to be paper."
354,"On his throat were the marks of murderous hands, and on his left ankle was a distressing rat bite."
355,"Everything is related in them which bears reference to my accursed origin; the whole detail of that series of disgusting circumstances which produced it is set in view; the minutest description of my odious and loathsome person is given, in language which painted your own horrors and rendered mine indelible."
356,"When we reached this tree, Legrand turned to Jupiter, and asked him if he thought he could climb it."
357,I gave him pretty nearly the same account of my former pursuits as I had given to his fellow professor.
358,"Thus was I left to ponder on myself as the only human creature within the great fortress, and in my utter solitude my mind began to cease its vain protest against the impending doom, to become almost reconciled to the fate which so many of my ancestors had met."
359,"As the music went on, my ideas seemed to quit their mortal dwelling house; they shook their pinions and began a flight, sailing on the placid current of thought, filling the creation with new glory, and rousing sublime imagery that else had slept voiceless."
360,"I waited for my letters with feverish impatience; if they were delayed I was miserable and overcome by a thousand fears; and when they arrived and I saw the superscription of Elizabeth or my father, I hardly dared to read and ascertain my fate."
361,It is now madness or hypocrisy to doubt.
362,But even in this acute moment my chief horror was something apart from the immediate weakness of my defences.
363,"Trade fallin' off, mills losin' business even the new ones an' the best of our menfolks kilt a privateerin' in the War of or lost with the Elizy brig an' the Ranger snow both of 'em Gilman venters."
364,"One fine February day, when the sun had reassumed some of its genial power, I walked in the forest with my family."
365,Ingenuity: Your diddler is ingenious.
366,all over the reef an' swimmin' up the harbour into the Manuxet. . . .
367,At this time Lord Raymond returned from Greece.
368,"Bread and water did not tame my blood, nor solitary confinement inspire me with gentle thoughts."
369,"The moon's distance from the earth is, in round numbers, , miles."
370,"I carried pistols and a dagger constantly about me and was ever on the watch to prevent artifice, and by these means gained a greater degree of tranquillity."
371,"This accident, with the loss of my insurance, and with the more serious loss of my hair, the whole of which had been singed off by the fire, predisposed me to serious impressions, so that, finally, I made up my mind to take a wife."
372,"As these crossed the direct line of my vision they affected me as forms; but upon passing to my side their images impressed me with the idea of shrieks, groans, and other dismal expressions of terror, of horror, or of wo."
373,"So entirely secluded, and in fact inaccessible, except through a series of accidents, is the entrance of the ravine, that it is by no means impossible that I was indeed the first adventurer the very first and sole adventurer who had ever penetrated its recesses."
374,"In ceasing, he departed at once, and as abruptly as he had entered."
375,"and one, who led the way, was clad in a ghoulishly humped black coat and striped trousers, and had a man's felt hat perched on the shapeless thing that answered for a head. . . ."
376,"We could not understand, that is to say, we could not have understood, had the notion of this primum mobile ever obtruded itself; we could not have understood in what manner it might be made to further the objects of humanity, either temporal or eternal."
377,"The event, under the circumstances, was tremendous; for in the existence of a subterranean space here, my mad theories had terrible confirmation."
378,The gentle words of Agatha and the animated smiles of the charming Arabian were not for me.
379,Alas Life is obstinate and clings closest where it is most hated.
380,"The voice, however, still puzzled me no little; but even this apparent mystery was speedily cleared up."
381,"Gilman's dreams consisted largely in plunges through limitless abysses of inexplicably coloured twilight and bafflingly disordered sound; abysses whose material and gravitational properties, and whose relation to his own entity, he could not even begin to explain."
382,I was struck by the improvement that appeared in the health of Adrian.
383,"""Are you better now, sir?"" said she."
384,Another woman confirmed the account of the fishermen having brought the body into her house; it was not cold.
385,"I could now find room to doubt the evidence of my senses; and seldom called up the subject at all but with wonder at extent of human credulity, and a smile at the vivid force of the imagination which I hereditarily possessed."
386,"His appearance, different from any I had ever before seen, and his flight somewhat surprised me."
387,"I am thy creature, and I will be even mild and docile to my natural lord and king if thou wilt also perform thy part, the which thou owest me."
388,"The insane yarn I had heard from the aged drunkard did not promise very pleasant dreams, and I felt I must keep the image of his wild, watery eyes as far as possible from my imagination."
389,"Here, divesting myself of my clothes, for there is no reason why we cannot die as we were born, I threw myself headlong into the current; the sole witness of my fate being a solitary crow that had been seduced into the eating of brandy saturated corn, and so had staggered away from his fellows."
390,At a wave of my hand my deliverers hurried tumultuously away.
391,You should have seen me you should.
392,"And, in the midst of all this, the continuous braying of a donkey arose over all."
393,"There was none of the exotic technique you see in Sidney Sime, none of the trans Saturnian landscapes and lunar fungi that Clark Ashton Smith uses to freeze the blood."
394,For Arthur Munroe was dead.
395,"Nor did I doubt, that in the tranquillity of our family circle at Windsor, she would recover some degree of composure, and in the end, of happiness."
396,"These Great Old Ones, Castro continued, were not composed altogether of flesh and blood."
397,"Having thus fathomed, to his satisfaction, the intentions of Jehovah, out of these intentions he built his innumerable systems of mind."
398,"No man could crush a ""butterfly on the wheel"" with better effect; no man better cover a speedy retreat from a powerful adversary."
399,"In fact, to write upon such a theme it is necessary to have been hanged."
400,"Their still apparent union permitted her to do much; but no woman could, in the end, present a remedy to the encreasing negligence of the Protector; who, as if seized with a paroxysm of insanity, trampled on all ceremony, all order, all duty, and gave himself up to license."
401,When the old woman began to turn toward him he fled precipitately off the bridge and into the shelter of the town's labyrinthine waterfront alleys.
402,The rooks cawed loudly in the trees above; mixed with their hoarse cries I heard a lively strain of music.
403,I took it because of the queer old brick well in the cellar one of the sort I told you about.
404,No sympathy may I ever find.
405,"Steeped in misery as I am misery, alas only too real I shall be pardoned for seeking relief, however slight and temporary, in the weakness of a few rambling details."
406,"I suppose some astonishment was exhibited in my countenance, for Mr. Kirwin hastened to say, ""Immediately upon your being taken ill, all the papers that were on your person were brought me, and I examined them that I might discover some trace by which I could send to your relations an account of your misfortune and illness."
407,"He knew deeper vices through books, and he now longed to know them at first hand."
408,"As soon as morning dawned I crept from my kennel, that I might view the adjacent cottage and discover if I could remain in the habitation I had found."
409,"""Ass"" said the fourth."
410,"Elinor die This is frenzy and the most miserable despair: you cannot die while I am near."""
411,"Then too, we had spoken to him in advance of our quest; and I felt after my uncle's going that he would understand and assist me in some vitally necessary public explanations."
412,"Our talk was on subjects, unconnected with the emotions that evidently occupied each; but we each divined the other's thought, and as our voices spoke of indifferent matters, our eyes, in mute language, told a thousand things no tongue could have uttered."
413,"I was very sorry for him, for I dislike to see a German suffer; but he was not a good man to die with."
414,"An' the smell was awful, like what it is araound Wizard Whateley's ol' haouse. . ."
415,Nor did Adrian instruct me only in the cold truths of history and philosophy.
416,This relieves us of all doubt upon the question whether the old lady could have first destroyed the daughter and afterward have committed suicide.
417,"On a certain rainy afternoon when this illusion seemed phenomenally strong, and when, in addition, I had fancied I glimpsed a kind of thin, yellowish, shimmering exhalation rising from the nitrous pattern toward the yawning fireplace, I spoke to my uncle about the matter."
418,"'Let me go,' he cried; 'monster Ugly wretch You wish to eat me and tear me to pieces."
419,"In the open air alone I found relief; among nature's beauteous works, her God reassumed his attribute of benevolence, and again I could trust that he who built up the mountains, planted the forests, and poured out the rivers, would erect another state for lost humanity, where we might awaken again to our affections, our happiness, and our faith."
420,"Accordingly I kept north along Main to Martin, then turning inland, crossing Federal Street safely north of the Green, and entering the decayed patrician neighbourhood of northern Broad, Washington, Lafayette, and Adams Streets."
421,In Bolton the prevailing spirit of Puritanism had outlawed the sport of boxing with the usual result.
422,"I went down to open it with a light heart, for what had I now to fear?"
423,"I reason a priori, and a diddle would be no diddle without a grin."
424,"""Vase am I,"" she thought, ""vase brimful of despair's direst essence."
425,"He alluded to Adrian, and spoke of him with that disparagement that the worldly wise always attach to enthusiasm."
426,I recollected my threat and resolved that it should be accomplished.
427,"Raymond had evidently vacillated during his journey, and irresolution was marked in every gesture as we entered Perdita's cottage."
428,She spoke no word; and I not for worlds could I have uttered a syllable.
429,"This is somewhat thick, and so are her ankles, but she has a fine pair of green stockings to cover them."
430,Thus Mark Antony composed a treatise upon getting drunk.
431,Yet where had the fellow got such an odd notion?
432,"At night he would not be alone, nor would the company of a few persons calm him."
433,P. I do not comprehend.
434,"When my father had arrived the storm had already begun, but he had refused to stop and leaving his horse there he walked on towards the sea."
435,"Its persistence among a simple people was quite natural in view of the sudden and permanent return of abundantly fine fishing, and it soon came to be the greatest influence on the town, replacing Freemasonry altogether and taking up headquarters in the old Masonic Hall on New Church Green."
436,"We both inserted the whole unopened wooden box, closed the door, and started the electricity."
437,"The islands were no longer visible; whether they had passed down the horizon to the southeast, or whether my increasing elevation had left them out of sight, it is impossible to say."
438,"His dreams were meanwhile increasing in vividness, and though shewing him none of the strange cities and incredible gardens of the old days, were assuming a definite cast whose purpose could not be mistaken."
439,"Alas, what will become of us?"
440,"""The relatives of the Earl of Windsor,"" said she haughtily, ""doubtless think that I injured him; perhaps the Earl himself would be the first to acquit me, but probably I do not deserve acquittal."
441,"Now, as the baying of that dead, fleshless monstrosity grows louder and louder, and the stealthy whirring and flapping of those accursed web wings circles closer and closer, I shall seek with my revolver the oblivion which is my only refuge from the unnamed and unnamable."
442,"If we discover repetitions of such letters, so arranged, they will most probably represent the word 'the.' Upon inspection, we find no less than seven such arrangements, the characters being;."
443,"We careered round and round for perhaps an hour, flying rather than floating, getting gradually more and more into the middle of the surge, and then nearer and nearer to its horrible inner edge."
444,His demeanour was sad; for a moment he appeared glad to see me and then he checked himself as if unwilling to betray his feelings.
445,"The wound, and consequent inability of Argyropylo, caused Raymond to be the first in command."
446,At length we pulled away.
447,"But it is not that the corpse was found to have the garters of the missing girl, or found to have her shoes, or her bonnet, or the flowers of her bonnet, or her feet, or a peculiar mark upon the arm, or her general size and appearance it is that the corpse had each, and all collectively."
448,Dr. West's reanimated specimens were not meant for long existence or a large audience.
449,"I often wished that I had permitted her to take her own course, and engage herself in such labours for the welfare of others as might have distracted her thoughts."
450,"We lowered it without difficulty, although it was only by a miracle that we prevented it from swamping as it touched the water."
451,Did not proceed up stairs.
452,The old woman always appeared out of thin air near the corner where the downward slant met the inward slant.
453,But it was not in these vortices of complete alienage that he saw Brown Jenkin.
454,"Now, beware Be silent Do not urge me to your destruction."
455,"The open book lay flat between us, with the picture staring repulsively upward."
456,"I motioned to him to continue, which he did with renewed signs of reluctance."
457,We went out with the resolution of disputing with our foe.
458,", it will be seen at pp. and , that this illustrious chemist had not only conceived the idea now in question, but had actually made no inconsiderable progress, experimentally, in the very identical analysis now so triumphantly brought to an issue by Von Kempelen, who although he makes not the slightest allusion to it, is, without doubt I say it unhesitatingly, and can prove it, if required, indebted to the 'Diary' for at least the first hint of his own undertaking."
459,"He, Valence, knew Marie, and could not be mistaken in her identity."
460,We will fight the enemy to the last.
461,"""I repeat, then, that I only half felt, and never intellectually believed."
462,"He was merely crass of fibre and function thoughtless, careless, and liquorish, as his easily avoidable accident proves, and without that modicum of imagination which holds the average citizen within certain limits fixed by taste."
463,Will nobody contrive a more expeditious mode of progress?
464,"I spoke without much heed, and the very conclusion of what I said brought with it other thoughts."
465,"This exception was found in the person of a scholar, who, although no relation, bore the same Christian and surname as myself; a circumstance, in fact, little remarkable; for, notwithstanding a noble descent, mine was one of those everyday appellations which seem, by prescriptive right, to have been, time out of mind, the common property of the mob."
466,"She reposed beside her beloved, and the tomb above was inscribed with the united names of Raymond and Perdita."
467,"What this meant, no one could quite be certain till later."
468,"Her story was plain to him, plain and distinct as the remorse and horror that darted their fangs into him."
469,I was also sorry that I had no one with whom to converse.
470,"What I saw unnerved me most surprisingly, considering its relative triviality."
471,"SIR, Through our common friend, Mr. P., I have received your note of this evening."
472,If I wept he would gaze on me in silence but he was no longer harsh and although he repulsed every caress yet it was with gentleness.
473,"It is indeed early,"" he continued, musingly, as a cherub with a heavy golden hammer made the apartment ring with the first hour after sunrise: ""It is indeed early but what matters it?"
474,"These sounds were mingled with the roaring of the sea, the splash of the chafed billows round the vessel's sides, and the gurgling up of the water in the hold."
475,I had entered the brush grown cut and was struggling along at a very slow pace when that damnable fishy odour again waxed dominant.
476,"But I could discover, amidst all her repinings, deep resentment towards Raymond, and an unfading sense of injury, that plucked from me my hope, when I appeared nearest to its fulfilment."
477,"After all, what is it?"
478,"He rode through the town, visiting the wounded, and giving such orders as were necessary for the siege he meditated."
479,"This box was three feet and a half long, three feet broad, and two and a half feet deep."
480,My every motion was undoubtedly watched.
481,"After that experience West had dropped his researches for some time; but as the zeal of the born scientist slowly returned, he again became importunate with the college faculty, pleading for the use of the dissecting room and of fresh human specimens for the work he regarded as so overwhelmingly important."
482,"Eternal night continued to envelop us, all unrelieved by the phosphoric sea brilliancy to which we had been accustomed in the tropics."
483,"""Shocking"" said the youth, calmly, and turned quietly into the chateau."
484,"This was not altogether the fact: but predominant self will assumed the arms and masque of callous feeling; and the haughty lady disdained to exhibit any token of the struggle she endured; while the slave of pride, she fancied that she sacrificed her happiness to immutable principle."
485,"The police have laid bare the floors, the ceilings, and the masonry of the walls, in every direction."
486,"Uprearing themselves in tall slender lines of light, they thus remained burning all pallid and motionless; and in the mirror which their lustre formed upon the round table of ebony at which we sat, each of us there assembled beheld the pallor of his own countenance, and the unquiet glare in the downcast eyes of his companions."
487,Evidently the ticket agent had not exaggerated the dislike which local people bore toward Innsmouth and its denizens.
488,"I was now in Holborn, and passed by a public house filled with uproarious companions, whose songs, laughter, and shouts were more sorrowful than the pale looks and silence of the mourner."
489,"If I were awake I should like to die, but now it is no matter."
490,"I rambled on, oppressed, distracted by painful emotions suddenly I found myself before Drury Lane Theatre."
491,"He supposes that, had this been the case, it might have appeared at the surface on the Wednesday, and thinks that only under such circumstances it could so have appeared."
492,"Then came the frenzied tones again: ""Carter, it's terrible monstrous unbelievable"" This time my voice did not fail me, and I poured into the transmitter a flood of excited questions."
493,"Excellent friend how sincerely you did love me, and endeavour to elevate my mind until it was on a level with your own."
494,"While in London these and many other dreadful thoughts too harrowing for words were my portion: I lost all this suffering when I was free; when I saw the wild heath around me, and the evening star in the west, then I could weep, gently weep, and be at peace."
495,"And yet, as the members severally shook their heads and confessed defeat at the Inspector's problem, there was one man in that gathering who suspected a touch of bizarre familiarity in the monstrous shape and writing, and who presently told with some diffidence of the odd trifle he knew."
496,"""What can I do?"" she cried, ""I am lost we are both for ever lost But come come with me, Lionel; here I must not stay, we can get a chaise at the nearest post house; yet perhaps we have time come, O come with me to save and protect me"" When I heard her piteous demands, while with disordered dress, dishevelled hair, and aghast looks, she wrung her hands the idea shot across me is she also mad? ""Sweet one,"" and I folded her to my heart, ""better repose than wander further; rest my beloved, I will make a fire you are chill."""
497,"My productions however were sufficiently unpretending; they were confined to the biography of favourite historical characters, especially those whom I believed to have been traduced, or about whom clung obscurity and doubt."
498,But I was enchanted by the appearance of the hut; here the snow and rain could not penetrate; the ground was dry; and it presented to me then as exquisite and divine a retreat as Pandemonium appeared to the demons of hell after their sufferings in the lake of fire.
499,And it was under a horned waning moon that I saw the city for the first time.
500,I determined to follow my nose.
501,"She received these tokens of returning love with gentleness; she did not shun his company; but she endeavoured to place a barrier in the way of familiar intercourse or painful discussion, which mingled pride and shame prevented Raymond from surmounting."
502,"Within the wall thus exposed by the displacing of the bones, we perceived a still interior recess, in depth about four feet, in width three, in height six or seven."
503,"Here were the future governors of England; the men, who, when our ardour was cold, and our projects completed or destroyed for ever, when, our drama acted, we doffed the garb of the hour, and assumed the uniform of age, or of more equalizing death; here were the beings who were to carry on the vast machine of society; here were the lovers, husbands, fathers; here the landlord, the politician, the soldier; some fancied that they were even now ready to appear on the stage, eager to make one among the dramatis personae of active life."
504,Perhaps it is madness that is overtaking me yet perhaps a greater horror or a greater marvel is reaching out.
505,This extended but little below the elbow.
506,"Here, truly, was the apotheosis of the unnamable."
507,"He had been saying to himself ""It is nothing but the wind in the chimney it is only a mouse crossing the floor,"" or ""It is merely a cricket which has made a single chirp."""
508,"Thus it seemed to me evident that my rate of ascent was not only on the increase, but that the progression would have been apparent in a slight degree even had I not discharged the ballast which I did."
509,"A low, continuous murmur, like that arising from a full, but gently flowing river, came to my ears, intermingled with the peculiar hum of multitudinous human voices."
510,"I repeat that the principle here expressed, is incontrovertible; but there may be something even beyond it."
511,"Evadne, once the idol of Adrian's affections; and who, for the sake of her present visitor, had disdained the noble youth, and then, neglected by him she loved, with crushed hopes and a stinging sense of misery, had returned to her native Greece."
512,"By observing, as I say, the strictest system in all my dealings, and keeping a well regulated set of books, I was enabled to get over many serious difficulties, and, in the end, to establish myself very decently in the profession."
513,"But I was bewildered, perplexed, and unable to arrange my ideas sufficiently to understand the full extent of his proposition."
514,"But this thought, which supported me in the commencement of my career, now serves only to plunge me lower in the dust."
515,"Great God If for one instant I had thought what might be the hellish intention of my fiendish adversary, I would rather have banished myself forever from my native country and wandered a friendless outcast over the earth than have consented to this miserable marriage."
516,"Those who have watched the tall, lean, Terrible Old Man in these peculiar conversations, do not watch him again."
517,"This idea, having once seized upon my fancy, greatly excited it, and I lost myself forthwith in revery."
518,"Holding a lighted candle at this door, and shifting the position of the whole machine repeatedly at the same time, a bright light is thrown entirely through the cupboard, which is now clearly seen to be full, completely full, of machinery."
519,"The apartments of the students were converted into so many pot houses, and there was no pot house of them all more famous or more frequented than that of the Baron."
520,"West, young despite his marvellous scientific acquirements, had scant patience with good Dr. Halsey and his erudite colleagues; and nursed an increasing resentment, coupled with a desire to prove his theories to these obtuse worthies in some striking and dramatic fashion."
521,"Valdemar, do you still sleep?"""
522,"Some time before noon his physician, Dr. Hartwell, called to see him and insisted that he cease work."
523,"In this manner I distributed my occupations when I first arrived, but as I proceeded in my labour, it became every day more horrible and irksome to me."
524,"Such a monster has, then, really existence I cannot doubt it, yet I am lost in surprise and admiration."
525,"By the operation of this spring, the screw is made to revolve with great rapidity, communicating a progressive motion to the whole."
526,The scent had never for an instant been lost.
527,"Throwing the links about his waist, it was but the work of a few seconds to secure it."
528,"It was open wide, wide open and I grew furious as I gazed upon it."
529,"Gilman could not be very clear about his reasons for this last assumption, but his haziness here was more than overbalanced by his clearness on other complex points."
530,You should have seen how wisely I proceeded with what caution with what foresight with what dissimulation I went to work I was never kinder to the old man than during the whole week before I killed him.
531,It is hard for one so young who was once so happy as I was; sic voluntarily to divest themselves of all sensation and to go alone to the dreary grave; I dare not.
532,"The aspect of that ruin I cannot describe I must have been mad, for it seemed to rise majestic and undecayed, splendid and column cinctured, the flame reflecting marble of its entablature piercing the sky like the apex of a temple on a mountain top."
533,And when did the radiant Una ask anything of her Monos in vain?
534,"In her resentful mood, these expressions had been remembered with acrimony and disdain; they visited her in her softened hour, taking sleep from her eyes, all hope of rest from her uneasy mind."
535,God raises my weakness and gives me courage to endure the worst.
536,Windows there were none.
537,"His own face was in shadow, and he wore a wide brimmed hat which somehow blended perfectly with the out of date cloak he affected; but I was subtly disquieted even before he addressed me."
538,What other possible reason could there have been for her so blushing?
539,I could not have been more surprised at the sound of the trump of the Archangel.
540,And here how singularly sounds that word which of old was wont to bring terror to all hearts throwing a mildew upon all pleasures Una.
541,"Thinking earnestly upon these points, I remained, for an hour perhaps, half sitting, half reclining, with my vision riveted upon the portrait."
542,"Upon my word of honor, this was not an unreasonable price for that dickey."
543,"Give me the name of friend; I will fulfill its duties; and if for a moment complaint and sorrow would shape themselves into words let me be near to speak peace to your vext soul."""
544,The glare from the enkindled roof illumined its inmost recesses.
545,"The king has ordered some novel spectacle some gladiatorial exhibition at the hippodrome or perhaps the massacre of the Scythian prisoners or the conflagration of his new palace or the tearing down of a handsome temple or, indeed, a bonfire of a few Jews."
546,I might as well have attempted to arrest an avalanche Down still unceasingly still inevitably down I gasped and struggled at each vibration.
547,They who dream by day are cognizant of many things which escape those who dream only by night.
548,"Long and earnestly did I continue the investigation: but the contemptible reward of my industry and perseverance proved to be only a set of false teeth, two pair of hips, an eye, and a bundle of billets doux from Mr. Windenough to my wife."
549,"After great trouble, occasioned by the intractable ferocity of his captive during the home voyage, he at length succeeded in lodging it safely at his own residence in Paris, where, not to attract toward himself the unpleasant curiosity of his neighbors, he kept it carefully secluded, until such time as it should recover from a wound in the foot, received from a splinter on board ship."
550,"It was an odd scene, and because I was strange to New England I had never known its like before."
551,"It was a key a guide to certain gateways and transitions of which mystics have dreamed and whispered since the race was young, and which lead to freedoms and discoveries beyond the three dimensions and realms of life and matter that we know."
552,"As the hour for its arrival drew near I noticed a general drift of the loungers to other places up the street, or to the Ideal Lunch across the square."
553,"It seems to me rather merciful that I do not, for they were terrible studies, which I pursued more through reluctant fascination than through actual inclination."
554,Her manners were cold and repulsive.
555,all made o' squirmin' ropes . . .
556,"She is very clever and gentle, and extremely pretty; as I mentioned before, her mien and her expression continually remind me of my dear aunt."
557,Soon after we heard that the poor victim had expressed a desire to see my cousin.
558,"Looking about, I saw that the ceiling was wet and dripping; the soaking apparently proceeding from a corner on the side toward the street."
559,"Nitrogen, on the contrary, was incapable of supporting either animal life or flame."
560,"We read of centre and wing in Greek and Roman history; we fancy a spot, plain as a table, and soldiers small as chessmen; and drawn forth, so that the most ignorant of the game can discover science and order in the disposition of the forces."
561,"Engaged in researches which absorbed our whole attention, it had been nearly a month since either of us had gone abroad, or received a visiter, or more than glanced at the leading political articles in one of the daily papers."
562,"Whisper it not, let the demons hear and rejoice The choice is with us; let us will it, and our habitation becomes a paradise."
563,Her lower tones were absolutely miraculous.
564,"""On Monday, one of the bargemen connected with the revenue service, saw a empty boat floating down the Seine."
565,"I am a farce and play to him, but to me this is all dreary reality: he takes all the profit and I bear all the burthen."
566,"We have already reached a very high latitude; but it is the height of summer, and although not so warm as in England, the southern gales, which blow us speedily towards those shores which I so ardently desire to attain, breathe a degree of renovating warmth which I had not expected."
567,He was nearly killed with kindness.
568,"One afternoon there was a discussion of possible freakish curvatures in space, and of theoretical points of approach or even contact between our part of the cosmos and various other regions as distant as the farthest stars or the trans galactic gulfs themselves or even as fabulously remote as the tentatively conceivable cosmic units beyond the whole Einsteinian space time continuum."
569,"I listened to his statement, which was delivered without any presumption or affectation, and then added that his lecture had removed my prejudices against modern chemists; I expressed myself in measured terms, with the modesty and deference due from a youth to his instructor, without letting escape inexperience in life would have made me ashamed any of the enthusiasm which stimulated my intended labours."
570,"For example, I bought pen, ink and paper, and put them into furious activity."
571,"Who, indeed, among my most abandoned associates, would not rather have disputed the clearest evidence of his senses, than have suspected of such courses, the gay, the frank, the generous William Wilson the noblest and most liberal commoner at Oxford him whose follies said his parasites were but the follies of youth and unbridled fancy whose errors but inimitable whim whose darkest vice but a careless and dashing extravagance?"
572,"I have consorted long with grief, entered the gloomy labyrinth of madness, and emerged, but half alive."
573,"Hereupon I bethought me of looking immediately before my nose, and there, sure enough, confronting me at the table sat a personage nondescript, although not altogether indescribable."
574,I dared not make the effort which was to satisfy me of my fate and yet there was something at my heart which whispered me it was sure.
575,"Certainly it sounds absurd to hear that a woman educated only in the rudiments of French often shouted for hours in a coarse and idiomatic form of that language, or that the same person, alone and guarded, complained wildly of a staring thing which bit and chewed at her."
576,"My life might have been passed in ease and luxury, but I preferred glory to every enticement that wealth placed in my path."
577,"I remember still more distinctly, that while he was pronounced by all parties at first sight ""the most remarkable man in the world,"" no person made any attempt at accounting for his opinion."
578,"Men have felt the tears of the gods on white capped Thurai, though they have thought it rain; and have heard the sighs of the gods in the plaintive dawn winds of Lerion."
579,"Some reflection seemed to sting him, and the spasm of pain that for a moment convulsed his countenance, checked my indignation."
580,No trees of any magnitude are to be seen.
581,The sweep of the pendulum had increased in extent by nearly a yard.
582,"Besides, the body would not be even approximately fresh the next night."
583,"The chamber was full but there was no Protector; and there was an austere discontent manifest on the countenances of the leaders, and a whispering and busy tattle among the underlings, not less ominous."
584,"After marriage, however, this gentleman neglected, and, perhaps, even more positively ill treated her."
585,"Gilman mechanically attended classes that morning, but was wholly unable to fix his mind on his studies."
586,"I went so far as to say that I felt assured of her love; while I offered this assurance, and my own intensity of devotion, as two excuses for my otherwise unpardonable conduct."
587,"I had just consummated an unusually hearty dinner, of which the dyspeptic truffe formed not the least important item, and was sitting alone in the dining room, with my feet upon the fender, and at my elbow a small table which I had rolled up to the fire, and upon which were some apologies for dessert, with some miscellaneous bottles of wine, spirit and liqueur."
588,One Survivor and Dead Man Found Aboard.
589,"Not from each other did Kalos and Musides conceal their work, but the sight was for them alone."
590,"Justine assumed an air of cheerfulness, while she with difficulty repressed her bitter tears."
591,"They were sensations, yet within them lay unbelievable elements of time and space things which at bottom possess no distinct and definite existence."
592,"When Carter left, he had said he was going to visit his old ancestral country around Arkham."
593,"The landlady met her in the passage; the poor creature asked, ""Is my husband here?"
594,"But now his oversensitive ears caught something behind him, and he looked back across the level terrace."
595,By and by these are taught to carry parcels of some weight and this weight is gradually increased.
596,"Then hoary Nodens reached forth a wizened hand and helped Olney and his host into the vast shell, whereat the conches and the gongs set up a wild and awesome clamour."
597,"He said little, and that moodily, and with evident effort."
598,A paralysis of fear stifled all attempts to cry out.
599,I say that he will never be bodiless.
600,"False was all this false all but the affections of our nature, and the links of sympathy with pleasure or pain."
601,In the most rugged of wildernesses in the most savage of the scenes of pure nature there is apparent the art of a creator; yet this art is apparent to reflection only; in no respect has it the obvious force of a feeling.
602,"I took him up at last, and threw him to about half a dozen yards from the balloon."
603,"And the question to be solved proceeds, or should proceed, to its final determination, by a succession of unerring steps liable to no change, and subject to no modification."
604,What said he? some broken sentences I heard.
605,The bandage lay heavily about the mouth but then might it not be the mouth of the breathing Lady of Tremaine?
606,Then one night when the moon was full the travellers came to a mountain crest and looked down upon the myriad lights of Oonai.
607,"The sophists of the negative school, who, through inability to create, have scoffed at creation, are now found the loudest in applause."
608,We expelled the bodies through the double hatches and were alone in the U .
609,"Oft when I have listened with gasping attention for the sound of the ocean mingled with my father's groans; and then wept untill my strength was gone and I was calm and faint, when I have recollected all this I have asked myself if this were not madness."
610,C Fletcher's comedy of the Captain.
611,I heard many things in hell.
612,"""Then there was 'The Involuntary Experimentalist,' all about a gentleman who got baked in an oven, and came out alive and well, although certainly done to a turn."
613,"She paused, weeping, and then continued, ""I thought with horror, my sweet lady, that you should believe your Justine, whom your blessed aunt had so highly honoured, and whom you loved, was a creature capable of a crime which none but the devil himself could have perpetrated."
614,I shall do nothing rashly: you know me sufficiently to confide in my prudence and considerateness whenever the safety of others is committed to my care.
615,Often with maternal affection she had figured their merits and talents exerted on life's wide stage.
616,"""Gentlemen,"" I said at last, as the party ascended the steps, ""I delight to have allayed your suspicions."
617,"As the last echo ceased, I stepped into B 's and inquired for Talbot."
618,"""Why it did not seem altogether right to leave the interior blank that would have been insulting."
619,Nothing in human shape could have destroyed the fair child.
620,"I alighted at Perth; and, though much fatigued by a constant exposure to the air for many hours, I would not rest, but merely altering my mode of conveyance, I went by land instead of air, to Dunkeld."
621,"When, to agree with him, I said I was distrustful of the Authenticity of Ossian's ms, Mr. Johnson said: ""That, Sir, does not do your Understanding particular Credit; for what all the Town is sensible of, is no great Discovery for a Grub Street Critick to make."
622,"Safie nursed her with the most devoted affection, but the poor girl died, and the Arabian was left alone, unacquainted with the language of the country and utterly ignorant of the customs of the world."
623,"I looked towards its completion with a tremulous and eager hope, which I dared not trust myself to question but which was intermixed with obscure forebodings of evil that made my heart sicken in my bosom."
624,"The first manifestations, although marked, are unequivocal."
625,"Back Bay isn't Boston it isn't anything yet, because it's had no time to pick up memories and attract local spirits."
626,But I am detailing a chain of facts and wish not to leave even a possible link imperfect.
627,I traversed the streets without any clear conception of where I was or what I was doing.
628,"In the present instance, had the gold been gone, the fact of its delivery three days before would have formed something more than a coincidence."
629,"""C'est à vous à faire,"" said his Majesty, cutting."
630,"I was weary with watching and for some time I had combated with the heavy sleep that weighed down my eyelids: but now, no longer fearful, I threw myself on my bed."
631,"Afterwards, succession runs thus: a o i d h n r s t u y c f g l m w b k p q x z."
632,"But in this existence, I dreamed that I should be at once cognizant of all things, and thus at once be happy in being cognizant of all."
633,"The inhabitants of our side of the moon have, evidently, no darkness at all, so there can be nothing of the ""extremes"" mentioned."
634,"I took a circuitous path, principally for the sake of going to the top of the mount before mentioned, which commanded a view of the city."
635,"When once disease was introduced into the rural districts, its effects appeared more horrible, more exigent, and more difficult to cure, than in towns."
636,"Especially was he afraid to be out of doors alone when the stars were shining, and if forced to this condition he would often glance furtively at the sky as if hunted by some monstrous thing therein."
637,"""This day was passed in the same routine as that which preceded it."
638,"As the afternoon advanced, it became increasingly difficult to see; and we heard the rumble of a thunderstorm gathering over Tempest Mountain."
639,In the manner of my friend I was at once struck with an incoherence an inconsistency; and I soon found this to arise from a series of feeble and futile struggles to overcome an habitual trepidancy an excessive nervous agitation.
640,"In this manner many appalling hours passed; several of my dogs died, and I myself was about to sink under the accumulation of distress when I saw your vessel riding at anchor and holding forth to me hopes of succour and life."
641,"My preference would be to avoid Paine, since the fire station there might be open all night."
642,"Chords, vibrations, and harmonic ecstasies echoed passionately on every hand; while on my ravished sight burst the stupendous spectacle of ultimate beauty."
643,"And the roof is of pure gold, set upon tall pillars of ruby and azure, and having such carven figures of gods and heroes that he who looks up to those heights seems to gaze upon the living Olympus."
644,"No one ventured on board the vessel, and strange sights were averred to be seen at night, walking the deck, and hanging on the masts and shrouds."
645,I must not forget one incident that occurred during this visit to London.
646,We have forgotten what we did when she was not.
647,Not a speck on their surface not a shade on their enamel not an indenture in their edges but what that period of her smile had sufficed to brand in upon my memory.
648,"The place was avoided with doubled assiduousness, and invested with every whispered myth tradition could supply."
649,Above all was the sense of hearing acute.
650,It seems that on that last hideous night Joe had stooped to look at the crimson rat tracks which led from Gilman's couch to the nearby hole.
651,"We may be instructed to build an Odyssey, but it is in vain that we are told how to conceive a 'Tempest,' an 'Inferno,' a 'Prometheus Bound,' a 'Nightingale,' such as that of Keats, or the 'Sensitive Plant' of ."
652,"'Oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, is entirely devoid of imagination and imagination, in our humble opinion, is not only the soul of sy, but also its very heart."
653,"He will tell me "" ""Luchesi cannot tell Amontillado from Sherry."" ""And yet some fools will have it that his taste is a match for your own."" ""Come, let us go."" ""Whither?"""
654,"I collected bones from charnel houses and disturbed, with profane fingers, the tremendous secrets of the human frame."
655,"This burst of passionate feeling over, with calmed thoughts we sat together, talking of the past and present."
656,"Dropping of its own accord upon his exit or perhaps purposely closed, it had become fastened by the spring; and it was the retention of this spring which had been mistaken by the police for that of the nail, farther inquiry being thus considered unnecessary."
657,"""Well, if you must have it so I will take a small reward just to satisfy your scruples."
658,"I did; but the fragile spirit clung to its tenement of clay for many days, for many weeks and irksome months, until my tortured nerves obtained the mastery over my mind, and I grew furious through delay, and, with the heart of a fiend, cursed the days and the hours and the bitter moments, which seemed to lengthen and lengthen as her gentle life declined, like shadows in the dying of the day."
659,Here it is at first difficult to perceive the intention of the reasoner.
660,"To carry out his views, he solicited and obtained the patronage of Sir Everard Bringhurst and Mr. Osborne, two gentlemen well known for scientific acquirement, and especially for the interest they have exhibited in the progress of ærostation."
661,"For without warning, in one of the small hours beyond midnight, all the ravages of the years and the storms and the worms came to a tremendous climax; and after the crash there was nothing left standing in The Street save two ancient chimneys and part of a stout brick wall."
662,"I have little to record, except the fact to me quite a surprising one that, at an elevation equal to that of Cotopaxi, I experienced neither very intense cold, nor headache, nor difficulty of breathing; neither, I find, did Mr. Mason, nor Mr. Holland, nor Sir Everard."
663,"It was nearly dead calm when the voyagers first came in view of the coast, which was immediately recognized by both the seamen, and by Mr. Osborne."
664,"My steps were sure, and could afford but a single result."
665,What was it I paused to think what was it that so unnerved me in the contemplation of the House of Usher?
666,"The whole house, with its wings, was constructed of the old fashioned Dutch shingles broad, and with unrounded corners."
667,A change fell upon all things.
668,"And then, like David, I would try music to win the evil spirit from him; and once while singing I lifted my eyes towards him and saw his fixed on me and filled with tears; all his muscles seemed relaxed to softness."
669,"It was evident that my considerate friend, il fanatico, had quite forgotten his appointment with myself had forgotten it as soon as it was made."
670,"Parliament was divided by three factions, aristocrats, democrats, and royalists."
671,"But if the sentiment on which the fabric of her existence was founded, became common place through participation, the endless succession of attentions and graceful action snapt by transfer, his universe of love wrested from her, happiness must depart, and then be exchanged for its opposite."
672,"It was, the Belgian averred, a most extraordinary object; an object quite beyond the power of a layman to classify."
673,I did not like the way he looked at healthy living bodies; and then there came a nightmarish session in the cellar laboratory when I learned that a certain specimen had been a living body when he secured it.
674,"I said it at first and I say it still, and I never swerved an inch, either, when he shewed that ""Ghoul Feeding""."
675,"Their minister at Constantinople was urged to make the necessary perquisitions, and should his existence be ascertained, to demand his release."
676,"I therefore undid only a few of these loops at one time, leaving the car suspended by the remainder."
677,"Whilst they strove to strip from life its embroidered robes of myth, and to shew in naked ugliness the foul thing that is reality, Kuranes sought for beauty alone."
678,"Unwholesome recollections of things in the Necronomicon and the Black Book welled up, and he found himself swaying to infandous rhythms said to pertain to the blackest ceremonies of the Sabbat and to have an origin outside the time and space we comprehend."
679,"Idris was too much taken up by her own dreadful fears, to be angry, hardly grieved; for she judged that insensibility must be the source of this continued rancour."
680,The boundaries which divide Life from Death are at best shadowy and vague.
681,"All denied a part in the ritual murders, and averred that the killing had been done by Black Winged Ones which had come to them from their immemorial meeting place in the haunted wood."
682,No woman could have inflicted the blows with any weapon.
683,They were that kind the old lattice windows that went out of use before .
684,Their happiness was not decreased by the absence of summer.
685,"The light curling waves bore us onward, and old ocean smiled at the freight of love and hope committed to his charge; it stroked gently its tempestuous plains, and the path was smoothed for us."
686,The Countess had failed in this design with regard to her children; perhaps she hoped to find the next remove in birth more tractable.
687,"The bones of the tiny paws, it is rumoured, imply prehensile characteristics more typical of a diminutive monkey than of a rat; while the small skull with its savage yellow fangs is of the utmost anomalousness, appearing from certain angles like a miniature, monstrously degraded parody of a human skull."
688,"His intellect found sufficient field for exercise in his domestic circle, whose members, all adorned by refinement and literature, were many of them, like himself, distinguished by genius."
689,"It was, indeed, a tempestuous yet sternly beautiful night, and one wildly singular in its terror and its beauty."
690,"He often left us, and wandered by himself in the woods, or sailed in his little skiff, his books his only companions."
691,"Morbid art doesn't shock me, and when a man has the genius Pickman had I feel it an honour to know him, no matter what direction his work takes."
692,"Return; dearest one, you promised me this boon, that I should bring you health."
693,"I then took opportunities of conveying by night, to a retired situation east of Rotterdam, five iron bound casks, to contain about fifty gallons each, and one of a larger size; six tinned ware tubes, three inches in diameter, properly shaped, and ten feet in length; a quantity of a particular metallic substance, or semi metal, which I shall not name, and a dozen demijohns of a very common acid."
694,"Down this new opening the eye cannot penetrate very far; for the stream, accompanied by the wall, still bends to the left, until both are swallowed up by the leaves."
695,"Ye gods and what do I behold is that the departed spirit, the shade, the ghost, of my beloved puppy, which I perceive sitting with a grace so melancholy, in the corner?"
696,"From those blurred and fragmentary memories we may infer much, yet prove little."
697,"Then again she sadly lamented her hard fate; that a woman, with a woman's heart and sensibility, should be driven by hopeless love and vacant hopes to take up the trade of arms, and suffer beyond the endurance of man privation, labour, and pain the while her dry, hot hand pressed mine, and her brow and lips burned with consuming fire."
698,"She had gone to hide her weakness; escaping from the castle, she had descended to the little park, and sought solitude, that she might there indulge her tears; I found her clinging round an old oak, pressing its rough trunk with her roseate lips, as her tears fell plenteously, and her sobs and broken exclamations could not be suppressed; with surpassing grief I beheld this loved one of my heart thus lost in sorrow I drew her towards me; and, as she felt my kisses on her eyelids, as she felt my arms press her, she revived to the knowledge of what remained to her. ""You are very kind not to reproach me,"" she said: ""I weep, and a bitter pang of intolerable sorrow tears my heart."
699,Perdita looked at him like one amazed; her expressive countenance shone for a moment with tenderness; to see him only was happiness.
700,"While he spoke, so profound was the stillness that one might have heard a pin drop upon the floor."
701,"Of my exact age, even down to days and hours, I kept a most careful record, for each movement of the pendulum of the massive clock in the library told off so much more of my doomed existence."
702,They were loud and quick unequal spoken apparently in fear as well as in anger.
703,"What he said was unintelligible, but words were uttered; the syllabification was distinct."
704,"""But when I saw you become the object of another's love; when I imagined that you might be loved otherwise than as a sacred type and image of loveliness and excellence; or that you might love another with a more ardent affection than that which you bore to me, then the fiend awoke within me; I dismissed your lover; and from that moment I have known no peace."
705,"Shakspeare, whose popularity was established by the approval of four centuries, had not lost his influence even at this dread period; but was still ""Ut magus,"" the wizard to rule our hearts and govern our imaginations."
706,"For about half an hour the conversation ran upon ordinary topics, but at last, we contrived, quite naturally, to give it the following turn: CAPT."
707,"In August, the plague had appeared in the country of England, and during September it made its ravages."
708,The writer professes to have translated his work from the English of one Mr. D'Avisson Davidson?
709,He became an adventurer in the Greek wars.
710,"But, if the contest have proceeded thus far, it is the shadow which prevails, we struggle in vain."
711,"the, or, substituting the natural letters, where known, it reads thus: the tree thr?h the."
712,Had the body been in any respect despoiled?
713,"It had already buried its sharp edge a full inch in my flesh, and my sensations grew indistinct and confused."
714,No fancy may picture the sublimity which might have been exhibited by a similar phenomenon taking place amid the darkness of the night.
715,"Looking around me during a pause in the Baron's discourse of which my readers may gather some faint idea when I say that it bore resemblance to the fervid, chanting, monotonous, yet musical sermonic manner of Coleridge, I perceived symptoms of even more than the general interest in the countenance of one of the party."
716,"""Wherefore do I feel thus?"
717,I replied to the yells of him who clamored.
718,"At first it told to me only the plain little tales of calm beaches and near ports, but with the years it grew more friendly and spoke of other things; of things more strange and more distant in space and in time."
719,"""My days were spent in close attention, that I might more speedily master the language; and I may boast that I improved more rapidly than the Arabian, who understood very little and conversed in broken accents, whilst I comprehended and could imitate almost every word that was spoken."
720,"""Here, then, we leave, in the very beginning, the groundwork for something more than a mere guess."
721,"Now, he reflected, those nervous fears were being mirrored in his disordered dreams."
722,"But perfect happiness is an attribute of angels; and those who possess it, appear angelic."
723,It was a good overcoat.
724,I adverted to what Adrian had already done I promised the same vigilance in furthering all his views.
725,"It was demonstrated, that the density of the comet's nucleus was far less than that of our rarest gas; and the harmless passage of a similar visitor among the satellites of Jupiter was a point strongly insisted upon, and which served greatly to allay terror."
726,"The last beams of the nearly sunken sun shot up from behind the far summit of Mount Athos; the sea of Marmora still glittered beneath its rays, while the Asiatic coast beyond was half hid in a haze of low cloud."
727,"""True,"" I observed; ""the paper is clearly then upon the premises."
728,"""Twas dis eye, massa de lef eye jis as you tell me,"" and here it was his right eye that the negro indicated."
729,"As long as their disunion remained a secret, he cherished an expectation of re awakening past tenderness in her bosom; now that we were all made acquainted with these occurrences, and that Perdita, by declaring her resolves to others, in a manner pledged herself to their accomplishment, he gave up the idea of re union as futile, and sought only, since he was unable to influence her to change, to reconcile himself to the present state of things."
730,"Blew it, and tried again no go."
731,"""How died he?"" ""In his rash exertions to rescue a favorite portion of his hunting stud, he has himself perished miserably in the flames."""
732,"'The things had all evidently been there,' he says, 'at least, three or four weeks, and there can be no doubt that the spot of this appalling outrage has been discovered.'"
733,"The diddler approaches the bar of a tavern, and demands a couple of twists of tobacco."
734,"Open up the gates to Yog Sothoth with the long chant that ye'll find on page of the complete edition, an' then put a match to the prison."
735,"He said, I push'd every Aspirant off the Slopes of Parnassus."
736,Has lived in Paris two years.
737,"I did so, but to little purpose, not being able to gather the least particle of meaning."
738,"We went up stairs into the chamber where the body of Mademoiselle L'Espanaye had been found, and where both the deceased still lay."
739,A vulgar man that sometimes but he's deep.
740,"The squire who succeeded to it in studied sartain arts and made sartain discoveries, all connected with influences residing in this particular plot of ground, and eminently desarving of the strongest guarding."
741,"During this period, I became aware, for the first time, of the origin of the sulphurous light which illumined the cell."
742,"In relation to the second it is only necessary to repeat what we have before stated, that the machine is rolled about on castors, and will, at the request of a spectator, be moved to and fro to any portion of the room, even during the progress of a game."
743,"My host now took my hand to draw me to one of the two windows on the long side of the malodorous room, and at the first touch of his ungloved fingers I turned cold."
744,"I do not know how I came to live on such a street, but I was not myself when I moved there."
745,This idea pursued me and tormented me at every moment from which I might otherwise have snatched repose and peace.
746,Wonderful likewise were the gardens made by Zokkar the olden king.
747,No youthful congregation of gallant hearted boys thronged the portal of the college; sad silence pervaded the busy school room and noisy playground.
748,"""I will soon explain to what these feelings tended, but allow me now to return to the cottagers, whose story excited in me such various feelings of indignation, delight, and wonder, but which all terminated in additional love and reverence for my protectors for so I loved, in an innocent, half painful self deceit, to call them."""
749,"But I had no bodily, no visible, audible, or palpable presence."
750,Yog Sothoth is the key and guardian of the gate.
751,"When exceptions did occur, they were mostly persons with no trace of aberrancy, like the old clerk at the hotel."
752,"How mutable are our feelings, and how strange is that clinging love we have of life even in the excess of misery I constructed another sail with a part of my dress and eagerly steered my course towards the land."
753,Fallen houses choked up the streets.
754,"I was in the service of a farmer; and with crook in hand, my dog at my side, I shepherded a numerous flock on the near uplands."
755,"After years he began to call the slow sailing stars by name, and to follow them in fancy when they glided regretfully out of sight; till at length his vision opened to many secret vistas whose existence no common eye suspects."
756,"Her energy of character induced her still to combat with the ills of life; even those attendant on hopeless love presented themselves, rather in the shape of an adversary to be overcome, than of a victor to whom she must submit."
757,"A line of Marston's ""Malcontent"" Death's a good fellow and keeps open house struck me at that moment as a palpable lie."
758,"We occasioned the greatest excitement on board all an excitement greatly relished by ourselves, and especially by our two men, who, now under the influence of a dram of Geneva, seemed resolved to give all scruple, or fear, to the wind."
759,It was he who had given me all the information I had of Tillinghast after I was repulsed in rage.
760,"""It was night, and the rain fell; and falling, it was rain, but, having fallen, it was blood."
761,When Gilman climbed up a ladder to the cobwebbed level loft above the rest of the attic he found vestiges of a bygone aperture tightly and heavily covered with ancient planking and secured by the stout wooden pegs common in colonial carpentry.
762,The maniac became composed; his person rose higher; authority beamed from his countenance.
763,"The eyes roll unnaturally in the head, without any corresponding motions of the lids or brows."
764,"Many were the waterfalls in their courses, and many were the lilied lakelets into which they expanded."
765,"Pale as marble, clear and beaming as that, she heard my tale, and enquired concerning the spot where he had been deposited."
766,"""Looking now, narrowly, through the cipher for combinations of known characters, we find, not very far from the beginning, this arrangement, , or egree, which, plainly, is the conclusion of the word 'degree,' and gives us another letter, d, represented by ."
767,Nor could I ever after see the world as I had known it.
768,All other matters and all different interests became absorbed in their single contemplation.
769,"While I was awake I knew what you meant by ""spirit,"" but now it seems only a word such for instance as truth, beauty a quality, I mean."
770,"In the deeper dreams everything was likewise more distinct, and Gilman felt that the twilight abysses around him were those of the fourth dimension."
771,"The horse itself, in the foreground of the design, stood motionless and statue like while farther back, its discomfited rider perished by the dagger of a Metzengerstein."
772,"When they had retired to rest, if there was any moon or the night was star light, I went into the woods and collected my own food and fuel for the cottage."
773,"This did moderately well for a time; in fact, I was not avaricious, but my dog was."
774,This was all true; but it was not less agonizing to take the admonition home.
775,"They talked of their illustrious Tyrant, and of the splendour of his capital; and exulted in the glory of the statue which Musides had wrought for him."
776,"Cast off the only gift that I have bestowed upon you, your grief, and rise from under my blighting influence as no flower so sweet ever did rise from beneath so much evil."
777,But he was great once my fathair in Barcelona have hear of heem and only joost now he feex a arm of the plumber that get hurt of sudden.
778,The effect produced by the firing of a cannon is that of simple vibration.
779,"Alas I knew not the desart it was about to reach; the rocks that would tear its waters, and the hideous scene that would be reflected in a more distorted manner in its waves."
780,"My heart beat quick as I approached the palings; my hand was on one of them, a leap would take me to the other side, when two keepers sprang from an ambush upon me: one knocked me down, and proceeded to inflict a severe horse whipping."
781,"The natives suspend it by a cord from the ceiling, and enjoy its fragrance for years.'"
782,"My evil passions will have fled, for I shall meet with sympathy My life will flow quietly away, and in my dying moments I shall not curse my maker."""
783,"A gentle breeze, however, now arose, as the sun was about descending; and while I remained standing on the brow of the slope, the fog gradually became dissipated into wreaths, and so floated over the scene."
784,"Soon after the departure of the couple, a gang of miscreants made their appearance, behaved boisterously, ate and drank without making payment, followed in the route of the young man and girl, returned to the inn about dusk, and re crossed the river as if in great haste."
785,"The position of the candelabrum displeased me, and outreaching my hand with difficulty, rather than disturb my slumbering valet, I placed it so as to throw its rays more fully upon the book."
786,"""Elizabeth Lavenza ""Geneva, May th, "" This letter revived in my memory what I had before forgotten, the threat of the fiend ""I WILL BE WITH YOU ON YOUR WEDDING NIGHT"" Such was my sentence, and on that night would the daemon employ every art to destroy me and tear me from the glimpse of happiness which promised partly to console my sufferings."
787,"He might have spoken, but I did not hear; one hand was stretched out, seemingly to detain me, but I escaped and rushed downstairs."
788,"Her face was exceedingly round, red, and full; and the same peculiarity, or rather want of peculiarity, attached itself to her countenance, which I before mentioned in the case of the president that is to say, only one feature of her face was sufficiently distinguished to need a separate characterization: indeed the acute Tarpaulin immediately observed that the same remark might have applied to each individual person of the party; every one of whom seemed to possess a monopoly of some particular portion of physiognomy."
789,"And the bright eyes of Eleonora grew brighter at my words; and she sighed as if a deadly burthen had been taken from her breast; and she trembled and very bitterly wept; but she made acceptance of the vow, for what was she but a child?"
790,I turned author myself.
791,"Bennett was asleep, having apparently felt the same anomalous drowsiness which affected me, so I designated Tobey for the next watch although even he was nodding."
792,"I contrived, however, to pacify them by promises of payment of all scores in full, as soon as I could bring the present business to a termination."
793,Some who knew him do not admit that he ever existed.
794,"It was closer to Maple Hill than to Cone Mountain, some of the crude abodes indeed being dugouts on the side of the former eminence."
795,The external world could take care of itself.
796,"The manipulations of Pompey had made, I must confess, a very striking difference in the appearance of the personal man."
797,"Then for a moment did Iranon believe he had found those who thought and felt even as he, though the town was not an hundredth as fair as Aira."
798,"Then, in endeavouring to do violence to my own disposition, I made all worse than before."
799,His graceful elocution enchained the senses of his hearers.
800,"The small, weather worn telephone poles carried only two wires."
801,"Posterity is no more; fame, and ambition, and love, are words void of meaning; even as the cattle that grazes in the field, do thou, O deserted one, lie down at evening tide, unknowing of the past, careless of the future, for from such fond ignorance alone canst thou hope for ease Joy paints with its own colours every act and thought."
802,Mr. B. merely cuts out and intersperses.
803,"But, in fact, this is a point of minor importance."
804,"One disgusting canvas seemed to depict a vast cross section of Beacon Hill, with ant like armies of the mephitic monsters squeezing themselves through burrows that honeycombed the ground."
805,The theatre was tolerably well filled.
806,"I neither knew nor cared whether my experience was insanity, dreaming, or magic; but was determined to gaze on brilliance and gaiety at any cost."
807,They are familiar to the world.
808,"She was nearly fifteen years older than he, and was the offspring of a former marriage of his father."
809,"I grew frantically mad, and struggled to force myself upward against the sweep of the fearful scimitar."
810,"M. St. Eustache, the lover and intended husband of Marie, who boarded in her mother's house, deposes that he did not hear of the discovery of the body of his intended until the next morning, when M. Beauvais came into his chamber and told him of it."
811,"I stopped automatically, though lacking the brain to retreat."
812,"When his gambols were over, I looked at the paper, and, to speak the truth, found myself not a little puzzled at what my friend had depicted."
813,"While such discussions were going on, their subject gradually approached, growing larger in apparent diameter, and of a more brilliant lustre."
814,"They stole off at first by ones and twos, then in larger companies, until, unimpeded by the officers, whole battalions sought the road that led to Macedonia."
815,"The scenery, judged by any ordinary aesthetic canon, is more than commonly beautiful; yet there is no influx of artists or summer tourists."
816,"I am glad that I have loved, and have experienced sympathetic joy and sorrow with my fellow creatures."
817,"The trees were lithe, mirthful, erect bright, slender, and graceful, of eastern figure and foliage, with bark smooth, glossy, and parti colored."
818,"Scarcely less savage was the ""Lollipop,"" which thus discoursed: ""Some individual, who rejoices in the appellation 'Oppodeldoc,' to what low uses are the names of the illustrious dead too often applied has enclosed us some fifty or sixty verses commencing after this fashion: Achilles' wrath, to Greece the direful spring Of woes unnumbered, c., c., c., c. ""'Oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, is respectfully informed that there is not a printer's devil in our office who is not in the daily habit of composing better lines."
819,"He was wholly alone, and his first act was to walk to the balustrade and look dizzily down at the endless, Cyclopean city almost two thousand feet below."
820,I went up to her and offered my services.
821,"Those who had lacked something lacked it no longer, yet did fear and hatred and ignorance still brood over The Street; for many had stayed behind, and many strangers had come from distant places to the ancient houses."
822,This I perceived with unhealthy sharpness despite the fact that two of my other senses were violently assailed.
823,He admitted that the principles that I laid down were the best; but he denied that they were the only ones.
824,They were fearfully they were inconceivably hideous; but out of Evil proceeded Good; for their very excess wrought in my spirit an inevitable revulsion.
825,"And when time shall have softened your despair, new and dear objects of care will be born to replace those of whom we have been so cruelly deprived."""
826,How could I have suspected the thing I was to behold?
827,"One of these fragile mirrors, that ever doted on thine image, is about to be broken, crumbled to dust."
828,"I recall that I did not regard it as a common flashlight indeed, I had a common flashlight in another pocket."
829,"""One of the most popular pieces of mechanism which we have seen, Is the Magician constructed by M. Maillardet, for the purpose of answering certain given questions."
830,"He was a strange, furtive creature who constantly looked over his shoulder as if afraid of something, and when sober could not be persuaded to talk at all with strangers."
831,Calderon de la Barca.
832,"I did not expect it, either, for I thought I was thoroughly forewarned regarding what the jewellery would turn out to be."
833,He was detained three days longer and then he hastened to her.
834,"And why should I describe a sorrow which all have felt, and must feel?"
835,But I paused when I reflected on the story that I had to tell.
836,"Ruined castles hanging on the precipices of piny mountains, the impetuous Arve, and cottages every here and there peeping forth from among the trees formed a scene of singular beauty."
837,"I did not weep, but I wiped the perspiration from my brow, and tried to still my brain and heart beating almost to madness."
838,"The steps were many, and led to a narrow stone flagged passage which I knew must be far underground."
839,"I had already decided not to abandon the quest for the lurking fear, for in my rash ignorance it seemed to me that uncertainty was worse than enlightenment, however terrible the latter might prove to be."
840,"It had lost, in a great measure, the deep tint of blue it had hitherto worn, being now of a grayish white, and of a lustre dazzling to the eye."
841,"But now I went to it in cold blood, and my heart often sickened at the work of my hands."
842,"The door marked I, it will be remembered, is still open."
843,"We hired a chaise here, and with four horses drove with speed through the storm."
844,Remember we're dealing with a hideous world in which we are practically helpless. . . .
845,"Of the various tales that of aged Soames, the family butler, is most ample and coherent."
846,"It was at Rome, during the Carnival of , that I attended a masquerade in the palazzo of the Neapolitan Duke Di Broglio."
847,"Thus, we talked of them, and moralized, as with diminished numbers we returned to Windsor Castle."
848,And it was the mournful influence of the unperceived shadow that caused him to feel although he neither saw nor heard to feel the presence of my head within the room.
849,"A bright light then pervades the cupboard, and the body of the man would be discovered if it were there."
850,"Through Asia, from the banks of the Nile to the shores of the Caspian, from the Hellespont even to the sea of Oman, a sudden panic was driven."
851,"It was not a wholesome landscape after dark, and I believe I would have noticed its morbidity even had I been ignorant of the terror that stalked there."
852,"I always knew you were no scientist Trembling, eh? Trembling with anxiety to see the ultimate things I have discovered?"
853,"Should I yield to your entreaties and, I may add, to the pleadings of my own bosom would I not be entitled to demand of you a very a very little boon in return?"""
854,"I did not wholly disagree with him theoretically, yet held vague instinctive remnants of the primitive faith of my forefathers; so that I could not help eyeing the corpse with a certain amount of awe and terrible expectation."
855,"Idris, the most affectionate wife, sister and friend, was a tender and loving mother."
856,"Then all motion, of whatever nature, creates?"
857,"The next night, without daring to ask for the rudder, he removes it."
858,"But, my dear Frankenstein,"" continued he, stopping short and gazing full in my face, ""I did not before remark how very ill you appear; so thin and pale; you look as if you had been watching for several nights."""
859,He shrieked once once only.
860,"She first assured him of her boundless confidence; of this he must be conscious, since but for that she would not seek to detain him."
861,"Wild visions, opium engendered, flitted, shadow like, before me."
862,"Upon entering, I thrust him furiously from me."
863,"The tread was heavy, yet seemed to contain a curious quality of cautiousness; a quality which I disliked the more because the tread was heavy."
864,"Besides, the estates, which were contiguous, had long exercised a rival influence in the affairs of a busy government."
865,"She had been in his employ about a year, when her admirers were thrown info confusion by her sudden disappearance from the shop."
866,"He had apparently been strangled, for there was no sign of any violence except the black mark of fingers on his neck."
867,Was that a rat I saw skulking into his hole?
868,"""Abhorred monster Fiend that thou art The tortures of hell are too mild a vengeance for thy crimes."
869,"Razor in hand, and fully lathered, it was sitting before a looking glass, attempting the operation of shaving, in which it had no doubt previously watched its master through the key hole of the closet."
870,"""We will resume this question by mere allusion to the revolting details of the surgeon examined at the inquest."
871,Ah let me see Let me remember Yes; full easily do I call to mind the precise words of the dear promise you made to Eugenie last night.
872,They partook less of transport and more of calm enthusiasm of enthusiastic repose.
873,"And now, too, hearing an incredible popping and fizzing of champagne, I discovered at length, that it proceeded from the person who performed the bottle of that delicate drink during dinner."
874,"The topography throughout, even when professing to accord with Blunt's Lunar Chart, is entirely at variance with that or any other lunar chart, and even grossly at variance with itself."
875,"""Vell, Monsieur,"" said she, after surveying me, in great apparent astonishment, for some moments ""Vell, Monsieur?"
876,"No, all must be changed."
877,"Agatha listened with respect, her eyes sometimes filled with tears, which she endeavoured to wipe away unperceived; but I generally found that her countenance and tone were more cheerful after having listened to the exhortations of her father."
878,Madness rides the star wind . . .
879,Nothing could be more magnificent.
880,"It was a very capital system indeed simple neat no trouble at all in fact it was delicious it was."""
881,"Still she felt sure that he would come at last; and the wider the breach might appear at this crisis, the more secure she was of closing it for ever."
882,"""Well, then, Bobby, my boy you're a fine fellow, aren't you?"
883,"This was the dream in which I saw a shoggoth for the first time, and the sight set me awake in a frenzy of screaming."
884,"The oven, for instance, that was a good hit."
885,yet he was never in better health.
886,It was agreed to call the whole thing a chemical laboratory if discovery should occur.
887,"I left at once the employment of Messrs. Cut Comeagain, and set up in the Eye Sore line by myself one of the most lucrative, respectable, and independent of the ordinary occupations."
888,"I had imagined that the habitual endurance of the atmospheric pressure at the surface of the earth was the cause, or nearly so, of the pain attending animal existence at a distance above the surface."
889,I was beyond measure disturbed by this intelligence.
890,"The patient, Mr. Edward Stapleton, had died, apparently of typhus fever, accompanied with some anomalous symptoms which had excited the curiosity of his medical attendants."
891,"Waterfront scum was far too common for special mention; though there was vague talk about one inland trip these mongrels had made, during which faint drumming and red flame were noted on the distant hills."
892,"On Frederick's lip arose a fiendish expression, as he became aware of the direction which his glance had, without his consciousness, assumed."
893,"This was, in fact, one of his hobbies."
894,"The mountain upon whose top we sit is Helseggen, the Cloudy."
895,"Matters of little moment are rarely consigned to parchment; since, for the mere ordinary purposes of drawing or writing, it is not nearly so well adapted as paper."
896,"Here he knew strange things had happened once, and there was a faint suggestion behind the surface that everything of that monstrous past might not at least in the darkest, narrowest, and most intricately crooked alleys have utterly perished."
897,Nobody but my enemies ever calls me Suky Snobbs.
898,"""Your arrival, my dear cousin,"" said she, ""fills me with hope."
899,"What, if circumstance should lead Perdita to suspect, and suspecting to be resolved?"
900,Of pain there was some little; of pleasure there was much; but of moral pain or pleasure none at all.
901,"I felt I had known it before, in a past remote beyond all recollection; beyond even my tenancy of the body I now possess."
902,"Three coffin heights, he reckoned, would permit him to reach the transom; but he could do better with four."
903,"By this time Dombrowski, Choynski, Desrochers, Mazurewicz, and the top floor lodger were all crowding into the doorway, and the landlord had sent his wife back to telephone for Dr. Malkowski."
904,"The wind, prince of air, raged through his kingdom, lashing the sea into fury, and subduing the rebel earth into some sort of obedience."
905,The season of the assizes approached.
906,"None of the non natives ever stayed out late at night, there being a widespread impression that it was not wise to do so."
907,"""But is it not possible,"" I suggested, ""that although the letter may be in possession of the minister, as it unquestionably is, he may have concealed it elsewhere than upon his own premises?"""
908,"He had awaked to find himself standing bloody handed in the snow before his cabin, the mangled corpse of his neighbour Peter Slader at his feet."
909,"The jumble of French changed to a cry in English, and the hoarse voice shouted excitedly, ""My breath, my breath"" Then the awakening became complete, and with a subsidence of facial expression to the normal state my uncle seized my hand and began to relate a dream whose nucleus of significance I could only surmise with a kind of awe."
910,"And the queer part was, that Pickman got none of his power from the use of selectiveness or bizarrerie."
911,"'By your language, stranger, I suppose you are my countryman; are you French?' ""'No; but I was educated by a French family and understand that language only."
912,"We rapidly drew near, so that at length the number and forms of those within could be discerned; its dark sides grew big, and the splash of its oars became audible: I could distinguish the languid form of my friend, as he half raised himself at our approach."
913,"It was certainly nervous waiting, and the blasphemous book in my hands made it doubly so."
914,Perdita was still to a great degree uneducated.
915,It was the silent first comer who had burned his books.
916,"""To dream,"" he continued, resuming the tone of his desultory conversation, as he held up to the rich light of a censer one of the magnificent vases ""to dream has been the business of my life."
917,It was owned by a curious group of half castes whose frequent meetings and night trips to the woods attracted no little curiosity; and it had set sail in great haste just after the storm and earth tremors of March st.
918,"Is it any wonder, then, that I prize it?"
919,All this time I had never let go of the ring bolt.
920,I feared to wander from the sight of my fellow creatures lest when alone he should come to claim his companion.
921,I have said that the sole effect of my somewhat childish experiment that of looking down within the tarn had been to deepen the first singular impression.
922,"Olney does not recall many of the wonders he told, or even who he was; but says that he was strange and kindly, and filled with the magic of unfathomed voids of time and space."
923,After all we miscalculated.
924,"His health was impaired beyond hope of cure; and it became his earnest wish, before he died, to preserve his daughter from the poverty which would be the portion of her orphan state."
925,"So now I am to end it all, having written a full account for the information or the contemptuous amusement of my fellow men."
926,"Young men should be diffident of themselves, you know, M. Clerval: I was myself when young; but that wears out in a very short time."""
927,"I reasoned, for example, thus: When I drew the scarabæus, there was no skull apparent upon the parchment."
928,"Had I never quitted Windsor, these emotions would not have been so intense; but I had in Greece been the prey of fear and deplorable change; in Greece, after a period of anxiety and sorrow, I had seen depart two, whose very names were the symbol of greatness and virtue."
929,"Although no two of the time pieces in the chamber struck the individual seconds accurately together, yet I had no difficulty in holding steadily in mind the tones, and the respective momentary errors of each."
930,That's capital That will do for the similes.
931,Oh Not the ten thousandth portion of the anguish that was mine during the lingering detail of its execution.
932,"Now and then, beneath the brown pall of leaves that rotted and festered in the antediluvian forest darkness, I could trace the sinister outlines of some of those low mounds which characterised the lightning pierced region."
933,"""And do you dream?"" said the daemon."
934,I permitted it to do so; occasionally stooping and patting it as I proceeded.
935,"I lived in a temple glorified by intensest sense of devotion and rapture; I walked, a consecrated being, contemplating only your power, your excellence; For O, you stood beside me, like my youth, Transformed for me the real to a dream, Cloathing the palpable and familiar With golden exhalations of the dawn."
936,"Many went up as high as Belfast to ensure a shorter passage, and then journeying south through Scotland, they were joined by the poorer natives of that country, and all poured with one consent into England."
937,"Induction, a posteriori, would have brought phrenology to admit, as an innate and primitive principle of human action, a paradoxical something, which we may call perverseness, for want of a more characteristic term."
938,"But it made men dream, and so they knew enough to keep away."
939,"In truth, much as the owners of cats hated these odd folk, they feared them more; and instead of berating them as brutal assassins, merely took care that no cherished pet or mouser should stray toward the remote hovel under the dark trees."
940,With the lady in question this portion proved to be the mouth.
941,"But it was not so; thou didst seek my extinction, that I might not cause greater wretchedness; and if yet, in some mode unknown to me, thou hadst not ceased to think and feel, thou wouldst not desire against me a vengeance greater than that which I feel."
942,A bold diddle is this.
943,"With sentiments of profound respect, Your most obedient servant, VON JUNG."
944,"The obtuse instrument was clearly the stone pavement in the yard, upon which the victim had fallen from the window which looked in upon the bed."
945,"In the architecture and embellishments of the chamber, the evident design had been to dazzle and astound."
946,"Among these, and highly distinguished by her, was Prince Zaimi, ambassador to England from the free States of Greece; and his daughter, the young Princess Evadne, passed much of her time at Windsor Castle."
947,"""Another circumstance strengthened and confirmed these feelings."
948,"Secondly, having settled it to be God's will that man should continue his species, we discovered an organ of amativeness, forthwith."
949,"At first, I had spoken only to those nearest me; but the whole assembly gathered about me, and I found that I was listened to by all."
950,"Of polished desert quarried marble were its walls, in height cubits and in breadth , so that chariots might pass each other as men drave them along the top."
951,"""You have your fortune to make, Thingum,"" resumed Mr. Crab, ""and that governor of yours is a millstone about your neck."
952,His servants are by no means numerous.
953,Shame seemed to hold him back; yet he evidently wished to establish a renewal of confidence and affection.
954,I obtained from my father a respite of some weeks.
955,"We were in the most imminent peril, but as we could only remain passive, my chief attention was occupied by my unfortunate guest whose illness increased in such a degree that he was entirely confined to his bed."
956,"That object no larger than a good sized rat and quaintly called by the townspeople ""Brown Jenkin"" seemed to have been the fruit of a remarkable case of sympathetic herd delusion, for in no less than eleven persons had testified to glimpsing it."
957,"This may not be; cease to argue the point, for I cannot consent."""
958,"He was perfectly self possessed; he accosted us both with courtesy, seemed immediately to enter into our feelings, and to make one with us."
959,"He again took my arm, and we proceeded."
960,This slowly became merged in a sense of retirement this again in a consciousness of solitude.
961,The box did not go into the extra state room.
962,"THE thousand injuries of Fortunato I had borne as I best could; but when he ventured upon insult, I vowed revenge."
963,This second sight is very efficient when properly managed.
964,For a moment my soul was elevated from its debasing and miserable fears to contemplate the divine ideas of liberty and self sacrifice of which these sights were the monuments and the remembrancers.
965,"I now began to experience, at intervals, severe pain in the head, especially about the ears still, however, breathing with tolerable freedom."
966,"Only the silent, sleepy, staring houses in the backwoods can tell all that has lain hidden since the early days; and they are not communicative, being loath to shake off the drowsiness which helps them forget."
967,"In such case I should have commenced with a collation and analysis of the shorter words, and, had a word of a single letter occurred, as is most likely, a or I, for example, I should have considered the solution as assured."
968,Six years have passed since I resolved on my present undertaking.
969,"In a very short time he was out of sight, and I have no doubt he reached home in safety."
970,"The very boldness of his language gave him weight; each knew that he spoke truth a truth known, but not acknowledged."
971,"At Bates Street I drew into a yawning vestibule while two shambling figures crossed in front of me, but was soon on my way again and approaching the open space where Eliot Street obliquely crosses Washington at the intersection of South."
972,"We assembled again towards evening, and Perdita insisted on our having recourse to music."
973,"Then suddenly all the stars were blotted from the sky even bright Deneb and Vega ahead, and the lone Altair and Fomalhaut behind us."
974,"""I suppose you have called about the Ourang Outang."
975,"You well know that on the whole earth there is no sacrifise that I would not make, no labour that I would not undergo with the mere hope that I might bring you ease."
976,"It was formed of a single, broad and thick plank of the tulip wood."
977,"Here the bank slopes upward from the stream in a very gentle ascent, forming a broad sward of grass of a texture resembling nothing so much as velvet, and of a brilliancy of green which would bear comparison with the tint of the purest emerald."
978,"In the heart of one like me there are secret thoughts working, and secret tortures which you ought not to seek to discover."
979,"Supporting her as I did, still she lagged: and at the distance of half a mile, after many stoppages, shivering fits, and half faintings, she slipt from my supporting arm on the snow, and with a torrent of tears averred that she must be taken, for that she could not proceed."
980,"In the radical theory of reanimation they saw nothing but the immature vagaries of a youthful enthusiast whose slight form, yellow hair, spectacled blue eyes, and soft voice gave no hint of the supernormal almost diabolical power of the cold brain within."
981,"He measures two points, and, with a grace inimitable, offers his Majesty the choice."
982,"In especial, the slightest appearance of mystery of any point I cannot exactly comprehend puts me at once into a pitiable state of agitation."
983,"Like many excellent people, he seemed possessed with a spirit of tantalization, which might easily, at a casual glance, have been mistaken for malevolence."
984,Upon the eighth night I was more than usually cautious in opening the door.
985,"Mrs. Frye proposed telephoning the neighbours, and Elmer was about to agree when the noise of splintering wood burst in upon their deliberations."
986,"I was faint, even fainter than the hateful modernity of that accursed city had made me."
987,"Their farther intentions were not ascertained; but we can safely promise our readers some additional information either on Monday or in the course of the next day, at farthest."
988,In a few respects they are even unworthy of serious refutation.
989,Yet how could I find this?
990,"Dr. Barnard, who had been watching the patient, thought he noticed in the pale blue eyes a certain gleam of peculiar quality; and in the flaccid lips an all but imperceptible tightening, as if of intelligent determination."
991,"Leaning upon the arm of the gallant Pompey, and attended at a respectable distance by Diana, I proceeded down one of the populous and very pleasant streets of the now deserted Edina."
992,"The writer spoke of acute bodily illness of a mental disorder which oppressed him and of an earnest desire to see me, as his best, and indeed his only personal friend, with a view of attempting, by the cheerfulness of my society, some alleviation of his malady."
993,"Immediately upon detecting this motion, and before the arm itself begins to move, let him withdraw his piece, as if perceiving an error in his manoeuvre."
994,We kept track of all the deaths and their circumstances with systematic care.
995,After much toil I found it.
996,"At length removing carefully his meerschaum from the right to the left corner of his mouth, he condescended to speak."
997,"But hoax, with these sort of people, is, I believe, a general term for all matters above their comprehension."
998,She alone knew the weight which Raymond attached to his success.
999,"The town was now a city, and one by one the cabins gave place to houses; simple, beautiful houses of brick and wood, with stone steps and iron railings and fanlights over the doors."
1000,"It was our plan to remain where we were and intercept the liner Dacia, mentioned in information from agents in New York."
1001,"There were many palaces, the least of which were mightier than any in Thraa or Ilarnek or Kadatheron."
1002,"It seems that he did not scorn the incantations of the mediaevalists, since he believed these cryptic formulae to contain rare psychological stimuli which might conceivably have singular effects on the substance of a nervous system from which organic pulsations had fled."
1003,She quitted her native Greece; her father died; by degrees she was cut off from all the companions and ties of her youth.
1004,"He died in debt, and his little property was seized immediately by his creditors."
1005,I walked vigorously faster still faster at length I ran.
1006,We talked of the ravages made last year by pestilence in every quarter of the world; and of the dreadful consequences of a second visitation.
1007,"So numerous were they, that Kuranes almost mistook them for an army, but their leader told him they were sent in his honour; since it was he who had created Ooth Nargai in his dreams, on which account he was now to be appointed its chief god for evermore."
1008,"Meanwhile the cult, by appropriate rites, must keep alive the memory of those ancient ways and shadow forth the prophecy of their return."
1009,"It is a fac simile drawing of what has been described in one portion of the testimony as 'dark bruises, and deep indentations of finger nails,' upon the throat of Mademoiselle L'Espanaye, and in another, by Messrs. Dumas and Etienne, as a 'series of livid spots, evidently the impression of fingers.' ""You will perceive,"" continued my friend, spreading out the paper upon the table before us, ""that this drawing gives the idea of a firm and fixed hold."
1010,An individual has committed the murder.
1011,"One night about eleven the pump of the refrigerating machine broke down, so that within three hours the process of ammonia cooling became impossible."
1012,"The town, I could see, formed a significant and exaggerated example of communal decay; but being no sociologist I would limit my serious observations to the field of architecture."
1013,"That Nature and its God are two, no man who thinks, will deny."
1014,"I observed this also and contrived a fan of branches, which roused the embers when they were nearly extinguished."
1015,"So I tried to read, and soon became tremblingly absorbed by something I found in that accursed Necronomicon; a thought and a legend too hideous for sanity or consciousness."
1016,"But I perceive, too soon for my own happiness, too late for England's good, that I undertook a task to which I am unequal."
1017,"He had vowed TO BE WITH ME ON MY WEDDING NIGHT, yet he did not consider that threat as binding him to peace in the meantime, for as if to show me that he was not yet satiated with blood, he had murdered Clerval immediately after the enunciation of his threats."
1018,"If you feel thus, we shall assuredly be happy, however present events may cast a gloom over us."
1019,"Cable advices from Dunedin report that the Alert was well known there as an island trader, and bore an evil reputation along the waterfront."
1020,"In the lighter preliminary phase the evil old woman was now of fiendish distinctness, and Gilman knew she was the one who had frightened him in the slums."
1021,"The nations beneath their influence bowed their heads, and died."
1022,"It must be understood, that neither by word nor deed had I given Fortunato cause to doubt my good will."
1023,He won't do he won't.
1024,"He was forever busy, and the only check to his enjoyments was my sorrowful and dejected mind."
1025,"It was clear to me that the yea nay manner not to say the gentleness the positive forbearance with which the ""Daddy Long Legs"" spoke of that pig, the editor of the ""Gad Fly"" it was evident to me, I say, that this gentleness of speech could proceed from nothing else than a partiality for the Fly whom it was clearly the intention of the ""Daddy Long Legs"" to elevate into reputation at my expense."
1026,"If I did, my father would probably shut me up in a sanitarium as my poor little cousin is shut up."
1027,"They produced in me an infinity of new images and feelings, that sometimes raised me to ecstasy, but more frequently sunk me into the lowest dejection."
1028,By some papers of her father which fell into her hands she heard of the exile of her lover and learnt the name of the spot where he then resided.
1029,"I shall commit my thoughts to paper, it is true; but that is a poor medium for the communication of feeling."
1030,"But the language of the evidence speaks of the strip in question as 'found around the neck, fitting loosely, and secured with a hard knot.'"
1031,"from the covenant of peace, a simile of sorrow?"
1032,"Its faces are large and white, and its hands heavy and black."
1033,"Bolton had a surprisingly good police force for so small a town, and I could not help fearing the mess which would ensue if the affair of the night before were ever tracked down."
1034,"If the multitude of mankind knew of my existence, they would do as you do, and arm themselves for my destruction."
1035,"With sincerity and fervour he gave the required promise: as a pledge of continued favour, he received from his royal master a sum of money to defray pressing debts, and enable him to enter under good auspices his new career."
1036,"Jewel Lake, which lay above the scene of action, heaved as in a tempest."
1037,"""You may have heard of one Captain Kidd."
1038,I must arise and examine.
1039,"But this, of course, cannot be done openly."
1040,Alas for human reason He accused the Greeks of superstition: what name did he give to the faith he lent to the predictions of Evadne?
1041,"From her I should learn the truth concerning our protector; I should hear why she had withdrawn from the protection of the Princess Evadne, and be instructed as to the influence which this overtopping and towering Raymond exercised over the fortunes of my friend."
1042,"The rudder of a sail boat would not have been abandoned, without inquiry, by one altogether at ease in heart."
1043,At the principal gate of the palace he encountered three equerries.
1044,"As the bell sounded the hour, there came a knocking at the street door."
1045,"We began to march in the new dusk, with the thin silver sickle of a young moon trembling over the woods on our left."
1046,"He had not noticed the time on the Kingsport steeple, though he could easily have made it out with his pocket telescope; but he knew his lateness was something very strange and unprecedented."
1047,"Our nature dim, like to an unlighted torch, sleeps in formless blank till the fire attain it; this life of life, this light to moon, and glory to the sun."
1048,Those who once knew him as scholar and aesthete say it is very pitiful to see him now.
1049,"Is he to be told that it is one of the many classes of fungus, of which the most ordinary feature is its upspringing and decadence within twenty four hours?"
1050,"And even far more than this: in remedy of the defective composition, each insulated member of the fraternity would have suggested the identical emendation."
1051,"As I received it, a loud growl was heard, succeeded by a scratching at the door."
1052,"I was indignant that he should sit at the same table with the companions of Raymond men of abandoned characters, or rather without any, the refuse of high bred luxury, the disgrace of their country."
1053,"Late at night the conference disbanded without having developed a definite plan, but all day Sunday Armitage was busy comparing formulae and mixing chemicals obtained from the college laboratory."
1054,"You have now suffered all of pain, however, which you will suffer in Aidenn."
1055,"When I was about fifteen years old we had retired to our house near Belrive, when we witnessed a most violent and terrible thunderstorm."
1056,"Before this event, the little beings, sprung from herself, the young heirs of her transient life, seemed to have a sure lease of existence; now she dreaded that the pitiless destroyer might snatch her remaining darlings, as it had snatched their brother."
1057,"It was from a youthful reverie filled with speculations of this sort that I arose one afternoon in the winter of , when to the state psychopathic institution in which I served as an interne was brought the man whose case has ever since haunted me so unceasingly."
1058,"In this case, granting the personal acquaintances to be equal, the chances would be also equal that an equal number of personal rencounters would be made."
1059,"""Thus,"" she cried, ""kindness can do, what no want, no misery ever effected; I weep."""
1060,Our own opinion is decidedly in favor of this supposition.
1061,"""Now by the fells of Cumberland,"" I cried, ""by all of the vagabond and poacher that appertains to me, I will stand at your side, draw my sword in the Greek cause, and be hailed as a victor along with you"" All the plain, from Kishan to Rodosto, a distance of sixteen leagues, was alive with troops, or with the camp followers, all in motion at the approach of a battle."
1062,"One night, as he was returning from his work, I intercepted Zann in the hallway and told him that I would like to know him and be with him when he played."
1063,Who could arrest a creature capable of scaling the overhanging sides of Mont Saleve?
1064,"He retained, nevertheless, in a very remarkable manner, both his mental power and a certain degree of physical strength."
1065,For these I longed with a phrenzied desire.
1066,"""It was a lady on horseback, accompanied by a country man as a guide."
1067,"And in the autumn of the year, when the winds from the north curse and whine, and the red leaved trees of the swamp mutter things to one another in the small hours of the morning under the horned waning moon, I sit by the casement and watch that star."
1068,"But the torso and lower parts of the body were teratologically fabulous, so that only generous clothing could ever have enabled it to walk on earth unchallenged or uneradicated."
1069,"Persuaded of this, I abandoned myself implicitly to the guidance of my wife, and entered with an unflinching heart into the intricacies of her studies."
1070,"Instead of the hillside tomb, it was the charred cellar on the crest of the slope whose presiding daemon beckoned to me with unseen fingers."
1071,"It was not however money, except partially, but the necessaries of life, that became scarce."
1072,"There were evil smelling staircases which creaked ominously, and on which the old woman seemed to radiate a faint violet light; and finally a door leading off a landing."
1073,"How can you, who long for the love and sympathy of man, persevere in this exile?"
1074,"As the weeks passed, the playing grew wilder, whilst the old musician acquired an increasing haggardness and furtiveness pitiful to behold."
1075,"If I succeed, many, many months, perhaps years, will pass before you and I may meet."
1076,"About thirty yards east of this tree stood, however, the pride of the valley, and beyond all question the most magnificent tree I have ever seen, unless, perhaps, among the cypresses of the Itchiatuckanee."
1077,"In short, both principle and policy demanded stern action; and I could not doubt but that Publius Scribonius, bearing in mind the dignity and obligations of the Roman People, would adhere to his plan of despatching the cohort, me accompanying, despite such objections as Balbutius and Asellius speaking indeed more like provincials than Romans might see fit to offer and multiply."
1078,"At each outburst of Slater's violence, I would fit the transmitter to his forehead and the receiver to my own; constantly making delicate adjustments for various hypothetical wave lengths of intellectual energy."
1079,"I found several letters, and, among others, one which I discovered from its commencement to be from your father."
1080,"But, indeed, I knew little of the speculative philosophy of the day."
1081,"From the paintings over which his elaborate fancy brooded, and which grew, touch by touch, into vaguenesses at which I shuddered the more thrillingly, because I shuddered knowing not why; from these paintings vivid as their images now are before me I would in vain endeavor to educe more than a small portion which should lie within the compass of merely written words."
1082,"A few more imperceptible steps lead us, finally, to the result."
1083,This address caused a considerable change in the physiognomy of my own auditor.
1084,"Dunwich folk read the stories when they appeared, and grinned over the obvious mistakes."
1085,"I enjoyed this scene, and yet my enjoyment was embittered both by the memory of the past and the anticipation of the future."
1086,"At first, doubting that I was really awake, I entered into a series of tests, which soon convinced me that I really was."
1087,"'It was when the streets were full of people,' says Le Commerciel, 'that she went out.'"
1088,"I feared the vengeance of the disappointed fiend, yet I was unable to overcome my repugnance to the task which was enjoined me."
1089,"But Adrian read with uncertain aim the charactery of her face, and might mistake."
1090,"The hideous occurrence itself was very simple, notable only for what it implied."
1091,"Physicians had told me of the danger of those spells, and I knew there was no time to be lost; so remembering what the landlady had said about the invalid's help of the injured workman, I dragged myself upstairs and knocked feebly at the door above mine."
1092,"I appreciated the direful change now in operation upon the flesh, and, as the dreamer is sometimes aware of the bodily presence of one who leans over him, so, sweet Una, I still dully felt that you sat by my side."
1093,"There had been a gorgeous sunset, and now the moon came up, nearly full and shedding a silver flood over the plain, the distant mountainside, and the curious low mounds that rose here and there."
1094,The end of Herbert West began one evening in our joint study when he was dividing his curious glance between the newspaper and me.
1095,"Sometimes she observed the war of elements, thinking that they also declared against her, and listened to the pattering of the rain in gloomy despair."
1096,"Once she hinted to the child Dutee of a somewhat peculiar circumstance in Mercy's last moments, but he had soon forgotten all about it save that it was something peculiar."
1097,"Thus time and the want of a reminder dulled the memory of the curse in the minds of the late Comte's family, so that when Godfrey, innocent cause of the whole tragedy and now bearing the title, was killed by an arrow whilst hunting, at the age of thirty two, there were no thoughts save those of grief at his demise."
1098,"And I viewed by moonlight the sparkling sea, the crystal headlands, and the placid harbour wherein lay anchored the White Ship."
1099,"In the multiform of the tree, and in the multicolor of the flower, he recognized the most direct and the most energetic efforts of Nature at physical loveliness."
1100,"He seemed to be in an aboundingly good humour, yet to possess those eccentricities which one might guess from his grooming."
1101,"must we prepare our funeral repast with labour, and with unseemly drudgery heap fuel on our deserted hearths must we with servile hands fabricate the garments, soon to be our shroud?"
1102,"I had vowed to my own heart never to shadow her countenance even with transient grief, and should I prove recreant at the hour of greatest need?"
1103,"We used to laugh at him, for we knew him from his birth though he thought himself a King's son."
1104,"There was a companionship in suffering there, and, the neighbours keeping constant watch on each other, and inspired by the active benevolence of Adrian, succour was afforded, and the path of destruction smoothed."
1105,"The moment Adrian should be legally elected his deputy, he would escape to safety."
1106,"I would walk barefoot through the world, to find an uninfected spot; I would build my home on some wave tossed plank, drifted about on the barren, shoreless ocean."
1107,It was not long ere we arrived at the place of destination.
1108,"Our course for the first four days was, with trifling variations, S.E. and by S.; and we must have run down the coast of New Holland."
1109,"In time there were no more swords, three cornered hats, or periwigs in The Street."
1110,"Presently, from an upper window of this place, there descended an effeminate looking person, by means of a string made of the turbans of his attendants."
1111,"Not far from the grey city of Ib did the wandering tribes lay the first stones of Sarnath, and at the beings of Ib they marvelled greatly."
1112,"On a triangular shelf in each angle of the room stood also a similar vase, varied only as to its lovely contents."
1113,"During this interval we had fairly unearthed an oblong chest of wood, which, from its perfect preservation and wonderful hardness, had plainly been subjected to some mineralizing process perhaps that of the Bi chloride of Mercury."
1114,"A bump arose at once on my sinciput, and turned out to be as pretty an organ of order as one shall see on a summer's day."
1115,"I cannot lead them unwillingly to danger, and I must return."""
1116,"Her hair was the brightest living gold, and despite the poverty of her clothing, seemed to set a crown of distinction on her head."
1117,"I replied carelessly, and partly in contempt, mentioned the names of my alchemists as the principal authors I had studied."
1118,He however attained his wish; he filled the situation for which nature seemed to have moulded him.
1119,"The entire area so Pundit says was, about eight hundred years ago, densely packed with houses, some of them twenty stories high; land for some most unaccountable reason being considered as especially precious just in this vicinity."
1120,"Some extensive cave in had obliterated all trace of the underground passage, while the rain had washed so much earth back into the excavation that I could not tell how deeply I had dug that other day."
1121,"They swept the country like a conquering army, burning laying waste murdering."
1122,"When a servant came to ask me if I would take food I learnt from him that my father had returned, and was apparently well and this relieved me from a load of anxiety, yet I did not cease to weep bitterly."
1123,I thus saw in vivid light a picture all unnoticed before.
1124,He has never ascended the summit of a hill.
1125,Here I pulled out my watch.
1126,"You call the Salem witchcraft a delusion, but I'll wage my four times great grandmother could have told you things."
1127,"Part of the left arm here his voice dropped so as to be heard with difficulty, and all the right, are restorations; and in the coquetry of that right arm lies, I think, the quintessence of all affectation."
1128,"He instanced the ecstasies of the fox hunter, and pointed to the tillers of the earth, the only people who, as a class, can be fairly considered happier than others."
1129,"The scales were exceedingly hard and glossy, with all the appearance of burnished gold."
1130,"A pulpy, tentacled head surmounted a grotesque and scaly body with rudimentary wings; but it was the general outline of the whole which made it most shockingly frightful."
1131,"The idea once broached, all were impatient to put it in execution."
1132,"A discrepancy of this unnatural kind gave rise, too frequently, alas to a life of unhappiness."
1133,"All to onct Sally she yelled agin, an' says the front yard picket fence hed just crumbled up, though they wa'n't no sign o' what done it."
1134,"Having noted and copied an oral ritual among the swamp cult worshippers his men had arrested, he besought the professor to remember as best he might the syllables taken down amongst the diabolist Esquimaux."
1135,"It was that of a female, the most exquisite I had ever beheld."
1136,"What seemed to be the main document was headed ""CTHULHU CULT"" in characters painstakingly printed to avoid the erroneous reading of a word so unheard of."
1137,"My own case, however, was very different indeed, and left me no room for any similar idea; for I did not wish to keep awake, but to be aroused from slumber at regular intervals of time."
1138,"Then there was heavy, deliberate tramping in the cottage, and Olney heard the windows opening, first on the north side opposite him, and then on the west just around the corner."
1139,At another Time Bozzy as we us'd to call him complain'd of my Harshness toward new Writers in the Articles I prepar'd for The Monthly Review.
1140,"I know to morrow's Sunday, because "" SMITHERTON."
1141,"Only the coffins themselves remained as potential stepping stones, and as he considered these he speculated on the best mode of arranging them."
1142,"He considered it an obligation to his ward to make the most of all the boy's property, nor did he concern himself with the deaths and illnesses which caused so many changes of tenants, or the steadily growing aversion with which the house was generally regarded."
1143,"When I told my uncle about it he was greatly aroused; and after a tense hour of reflection, arrived at a definite and drastic decision."
1144,"By slow degrees, these feelings of disgust and annoyance rose into the bitterness of hatred."
1145,"Preserve her for her own sake I know that you will if you require any other spur, think that, in preserving her, you preserve me."
1146,"In regard to the hair upon the arm, L'Etoile has been obviously disingenuous."
1147,"""I dun't keer what folks think ef Lavinny's boy looked like his pa, he wouldn't look like nothin' ye expeck."
1148,"But I had yet a resource left, in my constitutional audacity."
1149,"The light was dim, but Birch's sight was good, and he did not get Asaph Sawyer's coffin by mistake, although it was very similar."
1150,"She did not believe that he was dead, but she knew that he was in danger, and the hope of assisting in his liberation, and the idea of soothing by tenderness the ills that he might have undergone, elevated and harmonized the late jarring element of her being."
1151,"What is said in respect to the 'detecting and bringing into practice those nice relations of size, proportion and color,' is a mere vagueness of speech, which may mean much, or little, or nothing, and which guides in no degree."
1152,"During her brief stay at Jermyn House she occupied a remote wing, and was waited on by her husband alone."
1153,Impossible But let me hasten to the last eventful scene of the drama.
1154,"I was partly urged by curiosity, and compassion confirmed my resolution."
1155,"The confusion grew their looks of sorrow changed to mockery; they nodded their heads in time to the music, whose clang became maddening."
1156,Are we forever to be doomed to the thousand inconveniences of the balloon?
1157,Here he closed his eyes and placed his hand upon his heart.
1158,Of course he heard about the matter afterward and suffered untold torments of black and bewildered speculation; but even that was not as bad as actual nearness and several possible sights would have been.
1159,And now again all was void.
1160,"Then he returned to the sepulchre, and using his spade as a lever, sought to pry up the slab lying nearest to a stony ruin which may have been a monument in its day."
1161,"It is not pity that you feel; you lament only because the victim of your malignity is withdrawn from your power."""
1162,"Thus full of contradictions, unbending yet haughty, gentle yet fierce, tender and again neglectful, he by some strange art found easy entrance to the admiration and affection of women; now caressing and now tyrannizing over them according to his mood, but in every change a despot."
1163,"I knew that the time for action had come, and forthwith drew the bolt of the northward connecting door, bracing myself for the task of battering it open."
1164,"Her eyes could not be deeper than they were in childhood, nor her countenance more expressive; but the expression was changed and improved; intelligence sat on her brow; when she smiled her face was embellished by the softest sensibility, and her low, modulated voice seemed tuned by love."
1165,"Having reached the door, however, of the burgomaster's dwelling, the professor ventured to suggest that as the messenger had thought proper to disappear no doubt frightened to death by the savage appearance of the burghers of Rotterdam the pardon would be of little use, as no one but a man of the moon would undertake a voyage to so vast a distance."
1166,"What result, then, has ensued?"
1167,"The usual expression of his eyes was soft, though at times he could make them even glare with ferocity; his complexion was colourless; and every trait spoke predominate self will; his smile was pleasing, though disdain too often curled his lips lips which to female eyes were the very throne of beauty and love."
1168,There are some particular passages which affected my imagination in a powerful and extraordinary manner.
1169,"Never did any woman appear so entirely made of mind, as the Countess of Windsor."
1170,Idris had shared Perdita's ill opinion of the Greek; but Raymond's account softened and interested her.
1171,There were in that Street many trees; elms and oaks and maples of dignity; so that in the summer the scene was all soft verdure and twittering bird song.
1172,"Madman"" here he sprang furiously to his feet, and shrieked out his syllables, as if in the effort he were giving up his soul ""Madman I tell you that she now stands without the door"" As if in the superhuman energy of his utterance there had been found the potency of a spell the huge antique pannels to which the speaker pointed, threw slowly back, upon the instant, their ponderous and ebony jaws."
1173,Frankenstein is modest; an excellent quality in a young man.
1174,"But these are precious moments; devil as I am become, yet that is my Mathilda before me whom I love as one was never before loved: and she knows it now; she listens to these words which I thought, fool as I was, would blast her to death."
1175,"Then, as my gaze circled inland from the town, something less tranquil arrested my notice and held me immobile for a second."
1176,"Yet, when she stood in unassuming simplicity before us, playing with our children, or with girlish assiduity performing little kind offices for Idris, one wondered in what fair lineament of her pure loveliness, in what soft tone of her thrilling voice, so much of heroism, sagacity and active goodness resided."
1177,"C'est vrai que de toutes ces choses il a pensé beaucoup mais The Duc De L'Omelette is terror stricken; for, through the lurid vista which a single uncurtained window is affording, lo gleams the most ghastly of all fires Le pauvre Duc He could not help imagining that the glorious, the voluptuous, the never dying melodies which pervaded that hall, as they passed filtered and transmuted through the alchemy of the enchanted window panes, were the wailings and the howlings of the hopeless and the damned And there, too there upon the ottoman who could he be?"
1178,"HALF England was desolate, when October came, and the equinoctial winds swept over the earth, chilling the ardours of the unhealthy season."
1179,"The death of many of our inmates had weaned us from the fond idea, that Windsor Castle was a spot sacred from the plague; but our lease of life was renewed for some months, and even Idris lifted her head, as a lily after a storm, when a last sunbeam tinges its silver cup."
1180,"Obeying these impulses, he had become the husband of Perdita: egged on by them, he found himself the lover of Evadne."
1181,Two had been killed; perhaps that had finished it.
1182,"She loved him as a kind elder brother; a relation to guide, protect, and instruct her, without the too frequent tyranny of parental authority."
1183,"I remember the square of moonlight on the floor, that was not like any other light, and the visions that danced in the moonbeams when my mother sang to me."
1184,"But where, meantime, was the soul?"
1185,"Armitage heard the savage yelping of the great watchdog, and studied Whateley's gorilla like lope as he crossed the bit of campus visible from the window."
1186,"The latter was undergoing a rapid change, and the water seemed more than usually transparent."
1187,"You will remember that one or two of the wise among our forefathers wise in fact, although not in the world's esteem had ventured to doubt the propriety of the term ""improvement,"" as applied to the progress of our civilization."
1188,"I nevertheless did not think it expedient to attempt getting on my feet immediately; but, having tied up my arm as well as I could, I lay still for about a quarter of an hour."
1189,"Yes it was despair I felt; for the first time that phantom seized me; the first and only time for it has never since left me After the first moments of speechless agony I felt her fangs on my heart: I tore my hair; I raved aloud; at one moment in pity for his sufferings I would have clasped my father in my arms; and then starting back with horror I spurned him with my foot; I felt as if stung by a serpent, as if scourged by a whip of scorpions which drove me Ah Whither Whither?"
1190,"The hearing, at the same time, although excited in degree, was not irregular in action estimating real sounds with an extravagance of precision, not less than of sensibility."
1191,At length I arrived at the village of Chamounix.
1192,"The country afforded no such mass of horrors; solitary wretches died in the open fields; and I have found a survivor in a vacant village, contending at once with famine and disease; but the assembly of pestilence, the banqueting hall of death, was spread only in London."
1193,"Of the longitude I knew nothing, and no island or coast line was in sight."
1194,He entreated me to write often.
1195,"He, Bullet head, would make no alteration in his style, to suit the caprices of any Mr. Smith in Christendom."
1196,"At the end of a month he suddenly quitted his house and, unatteneded sic by any servant, departed from that part of the country without by word or writing informing any one of his intentions."
1197,P. Can you give me no more precise idea of what you term the unparticled matter?
1198,"If the murder had been committed at the Barrière du Roule, there would have been no necessity for any such arrangement."
1199,P. Is not God immaterial?
1200,"A closer scrutiny assured me, however, that it was only a small calf roasted whole, and set upon its knees, with an apple in its mouth, as is the English fashion of dressing a hare."
1201,The Minister I believe has written learnedly on the Differential Calculus.
1202,My purpose at present is a very different one indeed.
1203,"From these latter attacks I awoke, however, with a gradation slow in proportion to the suddenness of the seizure."
1204,During my wanderings I never slept without first calling down gentle dreams on your head.
1205,"It was the same for more than an hour, when the final throaty rattle came."
1206,We sat like one family round my hearth.
1207,"He was exceedingly thin; and might, as his associates asserted, have answered, when drunk, for a pennant at the mast head, or, when sober, have served for a jib boom."
1208,"This knowledge, and some of another kind, came afterwards in the course of an eventful five years, during which I have dropped the prejudices of my former humble situation in life, and forgotten the bellows mender in far different occupations."
1209,"Such were we upon earth, wondering aghast at the effects of pestilence."
1210,"How very safe, commodious, manageable, and in every respect convenient are our modern balloons Here is an immense one approaching us at the rate of at least a hundred and fifty miles an hour."
1211,"The blue and troubled sea sped past the vessel, and was spread shoreless around: the sky was covered by a rack, which in its swift motion shewed how speedily she was borne away."
1212,"My dear sir, you must begin your studies entirely anew."""
1213,"On all sides save to the west, where the sun was about sinking arose the verdant walls of the forest."
1214,"Mr. Osborne's telescope made it out something like ""Atalanta."""
1215,"There is no more painful sight than that of untimely care in children, and it was particularly observable in one whose disposition had heretofore been mirthful."
1216,"On the morning of July we sighted a warship flying American colours, and the men became very restless in their desire to surrender."
1217,I say with a sensual delight.
1218,A presentiment of ill hung over her.
1219,"Two soldiers contended for a girl, whose rich dress and extreme beauty excited the brutal appetites of these wretches, who, perhaps good men among their families, were changed by the fury of the moment into incarnated evils."
1220,"Moreover, in one of the walls was a projection, caused by a false chimney, or fireplace, that had been filled up, and made to resemble the red of the cellar."
1221,But I was in no mood to laugh and talk with strangers or enter into their feelings or plans with the good humour expected from a guest; and accordingly I told Clerval that I wished to make the tour of Scotland alone.
1222,"Pointing to a chair, table, and pile of books, the old man now left the room; and when I sat down to read I saw that the books were hoary and mouldy, and that they included old Morryster's wild Marvells of Science, the terrible Saducismus Triumphatus of Joseph Glanvill, published in , the shocking Daemonolatreia of Remigius, printed in at Lyons, and worst of all, the unmentionable Necronomicon of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred, in Olaus Wormius' forbidden Latin translation; a book which I had never seen, but of which I had heard monstrous things whispered."
1223,The destruction was complete.
1224,"Amidst such stupendous ruin only chaos dwelt, and the representatives of two cities left disappointed; Syracusans that they had no statue to bear home, Tegeans that they had no artist to crown."
1225,He had never given me insult.
1226,Be steady to your purposes and firm as a rock.
1227,"Suddenly these manifestations they ceased, and the world grew dark before mine eyes, and I stood aghast at the burning thoughts which possessed, at the terrible temptations which beset me; for there came from some far, far distant and unknown land, into the gay court of the king I served, a maiden to whose beauty my whole recreant heart yielded at once at whose footstool I bowed down without a struggle, in the most ardent, in the most abject worship of love."
1228,It was at this point that there came a knocking on the door; that ancient door of nail studded oak beyond which lay only the abyss of white cloud.
1229,I strained my vision to detect any motion in the corpse but there was not the slightest perceptible.
1230,"For the will of man is omnipotent, blunting the arrows of death, soothing the bed of disease, and wiping away the tears of agony."
1231,"One March night, however, we unexpectedly obtained a specimen which did not come from the potter's field."
1232,"The tower at length finished, and his aching arms rested by a pause during which he sat on the bottom step of his grim device, Birch cautiously ascended with his tools and stood abreast of the narrow transom."
1233,"Eli Liddeason, the other servant, constantly complained of weakness; and would have returned to his father's farm in Rehoboth but for a sudden attachment for Mehitabel Pierce, who was hired to succeed Hannah."
1234,At that moment I heard the steps of my younger protectors.
1235,"Chapter Day after day, week after week, passed away on my return to Geneva; and I could not collect the courage to recommence my work."
1236,Dusk fell and found Birch still toiling.
1237,But success and happiness were not to be.
1238,"It is a peculiarity of this material to give houses built of it the appearance of being wider at bottom than at top after the manner of Egyptian architecture; and in the present instance, this exceedingly picturesque effect was aided by numerous pots of gorgeous flowers that almost encompassed the base of the buildings."
1239,She could not disguise to herself that any change would separate her from him; now she saw him each day.
1240,Once again I breathed with perfect freedom and ease and indeed why should I not?
1241,"A singular change, too, had come over the heavens."
1242,"I heard his repeated shrieks before me, as he stumbled awkwardly along the level places and scrambled madly down the rickety ladders."
1243,"Raymond would follow soon, she said; he had been detained by business."
1244,"He heard the footsteps of the crowd overhead, and endeavored to make himself heard in turn."
1245,"When I reflected on his crimes and malice, my hatred and revenge burst all bounds of moderation."
1246,It was this unfathomable longing of the soul to vex itself to offer violence to its own nature to do wrong for the wrong's sake only that urged me to continue and finally to consummate the injury I had inflicted upon the unoffending brute.
1247,"I felt that I lay upon my back, unbound."
1248,"I am now, however, resolv'd to unburthen myself of a Secret which I have hitherto kept thro' Dread of Incredulity; and to impart to the Publick a true knowledge of my long years, in order to gratifie their taste for authentick Information of an Age with whose famous Personages I was on familiar Terms."
1249,"The channel now became a gorge although the term is somewhat inapplicable, and I employ it merely because the language has no word which better represents the most striking not the most distinctive feature of the scene."
1250,I awoke from disturbed dreams.
1251,Perdita's mind was not softened by this account.
1252,"That item, gathered by chance in a haunt of sailors, seemed indeed rather far fetched; since the low, black reef lies a full mile and a half out from Innsmouth Harbour."
1253,"There is no accounting for the caprices of madmen; and, in my opinion as well as in that of Dr. Tarr and Professor Fether, it is never safe to permit them to run at large unattended."
1254,"He approached; his countenance bespoke bitter anguish, combined with disdain and malignity, while its unearthly ugliness rendered it almost too horrible for human eyes."
1255,"But speech gave place to gasps again, and Lavinia screamed at the way the whippoorwills followed the change."
1256,It will be understood that I speak of coincidences and no more.
1257,"Inertia and force of habit, however, caused him to defer action; and he lingered indecisively among thoughts of old times, taking down the strange hangings from his walls and refitting the house as it was in his early boyhood purple panes, Victorian furniture, and all."
1258,About this time we retired to our house at Belrive.
1259,It was somewhat after this time on Hallowe'en that a great blaze was seen at midnight on the top of Sentinel Hill where the old table like stone stands amidst its tumulus of ancient bones.
1260,"From out the most central recess of this melancholy vaulting, depended, by a single chain of gold with long links, a huge censer of the same metal, Saracenic in pattern, and with many perforations so contrived that there writhed in and out of them, as if endued with a serpent vitality, a continual succession of parti colored fires."
1261,"""But,"" said I, ""you are quite au fait in these investigations."
1262,"All was again silent, but his words rang in my ears."
1263,"Close to the spot on which we stood, was a solitary rock, high and conical, which, divided on every side from the mountain, seemed a nature hewn pyramid; with little labour this block was reduced to a perfect shape; the narrow cell was scooped out beneath in which Raymond was placed, and a short inscription, carved in the living stone, recorded the name of its tenant, the cause and aera of his death."
1264,V. Yes; and I now see the confusion of idea.
1265,"But though Kalos and Musides dwelt in unbroken harmony, their natures were not alike."
1266,"Groups of citizens broad browed Roman colonists and coarse haired Romanised natives, together with obvious hybrids of the two strains, alike clad in cheap woollen togas and sprinklings of helmeted legionaries and coarse mantled, black bearded tribesmen of the circumambient Vascones all thronged the few paved streets and forum; moved by some vague and ill defined uneasiness."
1267,"Our men searched him for souvenirs, and found in his coat pocket a very odd bit of ivory carved to represent a youth's head crowned with laurel."
1268,"""As I felt the sickening sweep of the descent, I had instinctively tightened my hold upon the barrel, and closed my eyes."
1269,"There was something very disturbing about the nauseous sketches and half finished monstrosities that leered around from every side of the room, and when Pickman suddenly unveiled a huge canvas on the side away from the light I could not for my life keep back a loud scream the second I had emitted that night."
1270,"It's no vast tour I sometimes do it on foot, for I don't want to attract attention with a taxi in such a place."
1271,"This person was the late William Channing Webb, Professor of Anthropology in Princeton University, and an explorer of no slight note."
1272,I mean the happiness experienced in the contemplation of natural scenery.
1273,The poor woman was very vacillating in her repentance.
1274,Your Excellencies will bear in mind that distressed circumstances in Rotterdam had at length driven me to the resolution of committing suicide.
1275,"Upon reaching the wharf, I noticed a scythe and three spades, all apparently new, lying in the bottom of the boat in which we were to embark."
1276,"In short, the only ingress or egress was through a gate occupying a rocky pass in the road, a few paces below the point at which I stopped to reconnoitre the scene."
1277,"I entered its gloomy walls in a fit of triumphant extasy: ""He feels me now,"" I cried, ""and shall, again and again"" I passed but one day in confinement; in the evening I was liberated, as I was told, by the order of the Earl himself."
1278,"Yet a whole life of falsehood was otherwise my portion: and when remorse at being the contriver of any cheat made me shrink from my design I was irresistably led back and confirmed in it by the visit of some aunt or cousin, who would tell me that death was the end of all men."
1279,"They worshipped, so they said, the Great Old Ones who lived ages before there were any men, and who came to the young world out of the sky."
1280,Hint everything assert nothing.
1281,"No office, no devotion, no watching was irksome to her, as it regarded him."
1282,A sister of my father was with him at this period.
1283,"It was a lovely sight, even to me, poor wretch who had never beheld aught beautiful before."
1284,"This I most earnestly entreat, and I know you will comply."""
1285,"I do not intend to hurt you; listen to me.' ""He struggled violently."
1286,Foreigners and credulous grandmothers are equally garrulous about the modern nickel crucifix with broken chain mixed in the rubbish and shiveringly identified by Joe Mazurewicz as that which he had given poor Gilman many years before.
1287,"Their first supposition was that it was the corpse of some person who had been drowned and was thrown on shore by the waves, but on examination they found that the clothes were not wet and even that the body was not then cold."
1288,"True method appertains to the ordinary and the obvious alone, and cannot be applied to the outre."
1289,"At night, as of yore, Musides sought the banquet halls of Tegea whilst Kalos wandered alone in the olive grove."
1290,"These things she uttered as the shadows of the sweet twilight gathered darkly and more darkly around us and then, with a gentle pressure of her fairy like hand, overthrew, in a single sweet instant, all the argumentative fabric she had reared."
1291,"He had slowly tried to perfect a solution which, injected into the veins of the newly deceased, would restore life; a labour demanding an abundance of fresh corpses and therefore involving the most unnatural actions."
1292,"At first I would tiptoe up to my old fifth floor, then I grew bold enough to climb the last creaking staircase to the peaked garret."
1293,"Wilbur had been shockingly nervous at Cambridge; anxious for the book, yet almost equally anxious to get home again, as if he feared the results of being away long."
1294,"We sware to one another that the city was exactly the same, and still alive; and when the electric lights began to fade we cursed the company over and over again, and laughed at the queer faces we made."
1295,"The unexampled loveliness of the flower clad earth the genial sunshine and grateful shade the melody of the birds the majesty of the woods the splendour of the marble ruins the clear effulgence of the stars by night the combination of all that was exciting and voluptuous in this transcending land, by inspiring a quicker spirit of life and an added sensitiveness to every articulation of her frame, only gave edge to the poignancy of her grief."
1296,Did they have dogs after all?
1297,"This was a new sight to me, and I examined the structure with great curiosity."
1298,"Ah If you knew what I have suffered and what I may yet endure, you would endeavour to let me taste the quiet and freedom from despair that this one day at least permits me to enjoy."""
1299,"I spoke of my desire of finding a friend, of my thirst for a more intimate sympathy with a fellow mind than had ever fallen to my lot, and expressed my conviction that a man could boast of little happiness who did not enjoy this blessing."
1300,"Stern as a Jewish prophet, and laconically unamazed as none since his day could be, he told of the beast that had brought forth what was more than beast but less than man the thing with the blemished eye and of the screaming drunken wretch that they hanged for having such an eye."
1301,"He kissed me and continued: ""As for the tone heterogeneous, it is merely a judicious mixture, in equal proportions, of all the other tones in the world, and is consequently made up of every thing deep, great, odd, piquant, pertinent, and pretty."
1302,"Upon Zann the effect was terrible, for dropping his pencil suddenly he rose, seized his viol, and commenced to rend the night with the wildest playing I had ever heard from his bow save when listening at the barred door."
1303,"""He is your own property, sire,"" replied one of the equerries, ""at least he is claimed by no other owner."
1304,One definite flash I shall always remember.
1305,"Again in vengeance of his wrath he falls On their great hosts, and breaks their tottering walls; Arrests their navies on the ocean's plain, And whelms their strength with mountains of the main."
1306,"At twenty he had joined a band of music hall performers, and at thirty six had deserted his wife and child to travel with an itinerant American circus."
1307,"Adrian it is true had already gone to seek the fugitive, imagining that her tameless anxiety had led her to the purlieus of the House, and that some sinister event detained her."
1308,"Whilst Barzai was shouting these things Atal felt a spectral change in the air, as if the laws of earth were bowing to greater laws; for though the way was steeper than ever, the upward path was now grown fearsomely easy, and the bulging cliff proved scarce an obstacle when he reached it and slid perilously up its convex face."
1309,Such is my journal of what relates to this strange occurrence up to the present day.
1310,"AND now let the reader, passing over some short period of time, be introduced to our happy circle."
1311,I thus detail the precise mode in which it came into my possession; for the circumstances impressed me with peculiar force.
1312,"But from the disordered chamber of my brain, had not, alas departed, and would not be driven away, the white and ghastly spectrum of the teeth."
1313,"Soon to our ears came the distant thunder of falling waters, and to our eyes appeared on the far horizon ahead the titanic spray of a monstrous cataract, wherein the oceans of the world drop down to abysmal nothingness."
1314,"Again he tried to stop up the hole at the base of the slanting wall, wedging in a candlestick which seemed of about the right size."
1315,"He made her warm offers of service; she was too much occupied by more engrossing thoughts, either to accept or reject them; at length he left her, making a promise to repeat his visit the next day."
1316,"The blood of my forefathers cries aloud in my veins, and bids me be first among my countrymen."
1317,"The wounded deer dragging its fainting limbs to some untrodden brake, there to gaze upon the arrow which had pierced it, and to die, was but a type of me."
1318,The wall did not present the slightest appearance of having been disturbed.
1319,"if so, had she any when found?"
1320,"The boat appeared to be hanging, as if by magic, midway down, upon the interior surface of a funnel vast in circumference, prodigious in depth, and whose perfectly smooth sides might have been mistaken for ebony, but for the bewildering rapidity with which they spun around, and for the gleaming and ghastly radiance they shot forth, as the rays of the full moon, from that circular rift amid the clouds which I have already described, streamed in a flood of golden glory along the black walls, and far away down into the inmost recesses of the abyss."
1321,"They rotted quickly, and at one stage became slightly phosphorescent; so that nocturnal passers by sometimes spoke of witch fires glowing behind the broken panes of the foetor spreading windows."
1322,"The words were the singular but simple ones of the poet Ebn Zaiat: ""Dicebant mihi sodales si sepulchrum amicae visitarem, curas meas aliquantulum fore levatas."""
1323,How did he know so much about what they expected?
1324,"This made an end of me; and as for the ""HumDrum,"" the ""Rowdy Dow,"" and the ""Lollipop,"" I never could comprehend how they survived it."
1325,"That, you remember, was when Minot cut him."
1326,My reason for going ahead to Babson was that I wished neither to re cross the earlier open space nor to begin my westward course along a cross street as broad as South.
1327,"It contained but two rooms, and these exhibited all the squalidness of the most miserable penury."
1328,"Would that I had been indeed extinguished ""And now, Mathilda I must make you my last confession."
1329,"""Vid dis apologie for the maniere, I vill now say dat, helas Monsieur Simpson ave guess but de too true."
1330,"""And then,"" said the friend who had whispered, ""there was Boullard, the tee totum."
1331,"Fear overcame me; I dared no advance, dreading a thousand nameless evils that made me tremble, although I was unable to define them."
1332,See the beast has very justly kicked one of the rabble over and another and another and another.
1333,"He is remarkably precise, cautious, staid, and deliberate in his demeanor."
1334,"This morning, to my great joy, about nine o'clock, the surface of the moon being frightfully near, and my apprehensions excited to the utmost, the pump of my condenser at length gave evident tokens of an alteration in the atmosphere."
1335,"This latter was a remarkably large and beautiful animal, entirely black, and sagacious to an astonishing degree."
1336,"Mr. Maelzel, to be sure, is not very tall, but upon drawing near the machine, his head will be found at least eighteen inches below the head of the Turk, although the latter, it will be remembered, is in a sitting position. ."
1337,The course of the Rhine below Mainz becomes much more picturesque.
1338,The corpse of the young lady was much bruised and excoriated.
1339,"Here the old man faltered, mumbled, and lapsed into a moody and apprehensive silence; glancing nervously over his shoulder and then turning back to stare fascinatedly at the distant black reef."
1340,"At fust the things didn't never go onto the main island, but arter a time they come to want to."
1341,"Observing him in these moods, I often dwelt meditatively upon the old philosophy of the Bi Part Soul, and amused myself with the fancy of a double Dupin the creative and the resolvent."
1342,"Through the exertions of Beauvais, the matter was industriously hushed up, as far as possible; and several days had elapsed before any public emotion resulted."
1343,"""And then,"" said a tall man just opposite, ""we had here, not long ago, a person who had taken it into his head that he was a donkey which allegorically speaking, you will say, was quite true."
1344,"She soon went to pieces; I was shewn where she had been, and saw her disjoined timbers tossed on the waves."
1345,"They were made to imitate the body of a creeping serpent, and were long and black, with a poisoned barb."
1346,"It was, they averred, as though someone had groped about the ruins at no distant period."
1347,It was not long after my arrival and employment that Juan Romero came to the Norton Mine.
1348,"Hasn't he told you what ails him?"""
1349,"I imagined, that it was my imperative duty to take her from scenes that thus forcibly reminded her of her loss."
1350,"Mine has been a tale of horrors; I have reached their acme, and what I must now relate can but be tedious to you."
1351,"Half gliding, half floating in the air, the white clad bog wraiths were slowly retreating toward the still waters and the island ruin in fantastic formations suggesting some ancient and solemn ceremonial dance."
1352,The district which contained them appeared the abode of every kindly spirit.
1353,"When we rose to the surface about sunset a seaman's body was found on the deck, hands gripping the railing in curious fashion."
1354,"Heavy falls of snow gave an arctic appearance to the scenery; the roofs of the houses peeped from the white mass; the lowly cot and stately mansion, alike deserted, were blocked up, their thresholds uncleared; the windows were broken by the hail, while the prevalence of a north east wind rendered out door exertions extremely painful."
1355,Do not turn from me; I do not ask you to reveal it: I only entreat you to listen to me and to become familiar with the voice of consolation and kindness.
1356,"The truth is, I could not help regarding Mrs. Wyatt as a decidedly plain looking woman."
1357,"Alas its emaciation was excessive, and not one vestige of the former being lurked in any single line of the contour."
1358,"When I had waited a long time, very patiently, without hearing him lie down, I resolved to open a little a very, very little crevice in the lantern."
1359,"The boat did not at once descend to match the greater ocean depth, so I was soon forced to adjust the searchlight to cast a sharply downward beam."
1360,"My books, at this epoch, if they did not actually serve to irritate the disorder, partook, it will be perceived, largely, in their imaginative and inconsequential nature, of the characteristic qualities of the disorder itself."
1361,"SOME years ago, I engaged passage from Charleston, S. C, to the city of New York, in the fine packet ship ""Independence,"" Captain Hardy."
1362,"For there was a clearly visible living figure on that desolate island, and a second glance told him it was certainly the strange old woman whose sinister aspect had worked itself so disastrously into his dreams."
1363,"Noticing these things, I rode over a short causeway to the house."
1364,"In one, a large wicker cylinder with a ring at top, revelled a mocking bird; in another an oriole; in a third the impudent bobolink while three or four more delicate prisons were loudly vocal with canaries."
1365,"Adrian's countenance flitted across, tainted by death Idris, with eyes languidly closed and livid lips, was about to slide into the wide grave."
1366,I I alone was the cause of his defeat and justly did I pay the fearful penalty.
1367,"Desrochers, too, had something to say in fact, he insisted that cautious steps had sounded in the now vacant room above him on the first and second nights of Gilman's absence from it."
1368,"I gasped for breath ""I will not detail to you,"" continued Raymond, ""the melancholy particulars."
1369,"I forgot the distance between us: ""I will go with thee, Raymond"" I cried; but, my eye removed from the glass, I could scarce discern the pigmy forms of the crowd, which about a mile from me surrounded the gate; the form of Raymond was lost."
1370,"Several swimmers were still discernible; while on the far black reef I could see a faint, steady glow unlike the winking beacon visible before, and of a curious colour which I could not precisely identify."
1371,"The things we saw were very old and marvellous, or at least they seemed so in the few straggling rays of light by which I viewed them, and I shall never forget the tottering Ionic columns and fluted pilasters and urn headed iron fence posts and flaring lintelled windows and decorative fanlights that appeared to grow quainter and stranger the deeper we advanced into this inexhaustible maze of unknown antiquity."
1372,To say that we actually believed in vampires or werewolves would be a carelessly inclusive statement.
1373,I am not yet fallen so low; my honour is not yet so tarnished.
1374,The thought was fleeting; for his attention was instantly drawn towards the inhabitant of this wretched abode.
1375,"The old man, I mentioned, was absent in the country."
1376,"But there was a fearlessness and frankness about her, which said that she would not encroach on another's liberty, but held her own sacred and unassailable."
1377,"August , Yesterday the stranger said to me, ""You may easily perceive, Captain Walton, that I have suffered great and unparalleled misfortunes."
1378,By slow degrees our sickness and dizziness and horror become merged in a cloud of unnamable feeling.
1379,"The only real indication, indeed, of the mesmeric influence, was now found in the vibratory movement of the tongue, whenever I addressed M. Valdemar a question."
1380,"And of those who seemed tranquilly to repose, I saw that a vast number had changed, in a greater or less degree, the rigid and uneasy position in which they had originally been entombed."
1381,"I think it was his eye yes, it was this He had the eye of a vulture a pale blue eye, with a film over it."
1382,"On a sudden I heard a gentle step ascending the stairs; I paused breathless, and as it approached glided into an obscure corner of the room; the steps paused at my door, but after a few moments they again receeded, descended the stairs and I heard no more."
1383,"Yet from the first a taint of calamity, soon increased to boding significance, was apparent."
1384,I entered it and approached the tomb which marked their graves.
1385,The merriment of the hour was an unholy mockery of the sorrows of man.
1386,"""It was not until some time afterward that I recovered myself sufficiently to attend to the ordinary cares of the balloon."
1387,"In the glare of noon at the dead hour of night in sickness or in health in calm or in tempest the young Metzengerstein seemed rivetted to the saddle of that colossal horse, whose intractable audacities so well accorded with his own spirit."
1388,"To repose confidence in the understanding or discretion of a madman, is to gain him body and soul."
1389,"Then came days of evil, when many who had known The Street of old knew it no more; and many knew it, who had not known it before."
1390,"Another most important office of the guide rope, is to point out the direction of the balloon."
1391,"Now, without re adverting to the fact that stronger evidence 'to make others believe,' could never have been adduced, it may be remarked that a man may very well be understood to believe, in a case of this kind, without the ability to advance a single reason for the belief of a second party."
1392,"Having succeeded in inducing me to accompany him, he seemed unwilling to hold conversation upon any topic of minor importance, and to all my questions vouchsafed no other reply than ""we shall see"" We crossed the creek at the head of the island by means of a skiff; and, ascending the high grounds on the shore of the main land, proceeded in a northwesterly direction, through a tract of country excessively wild and desolate, where no trace of a human footstep was to be seen."
1393,It is still at large.
1394,"If, on the contrary, they are proof against expostulation, this very steadiness is an omen of success; and it becomes the duty of those who love them, to assist in smoothing the obstructions in their path."
1395,"Upon beating the game, he waves his head with an air of triumph, looks round complacently upon the spectators, and drawing his left arm farther back than usual, suffers his fingers alone to rest upon the cushion."
1396,"I was never made aware of her entrance into my closed study save by the dear music of her low sweet voice, as she placed her marble hand upon my shoulder."
1397,"And then, when my head was well in the room, I undid the lantern cautiously oh, so cautiously cautiously for the hinges creaked I undid it just so much that a single thin ray fell upon the vulture eye."
1398,"I found the exactions of the profession somewhat too much for my delicate state of body; and, discovering, at last, that I was knocked all out of shape, so that I didn't know very well what to make of the matter, and so that my friends, when they met me in the street, couldn't tell that I was Peter Proffit at all, it occurred to me that the best expedient I could adopt was to alter my line of business."
1399,When he did so his cry was less restrained than Morgan's had been.
1400,"He could not, of course, have locked the door behind him; yet it was now fastened, presumably from the inside."
1401,"""Smith?"" said she, ""why, not General John A. B. C.? Horrid affair that, wasn't it?"
1402,His Majesty looked chagrined.
1403,WE had now reached the summit of the loftiest crag.
1404,"After much patient instruction regarding its focussing and use, they left the telescope with the frightened group that remained in the road; and as they climbed they were watched closely by those among whom the glass was passed around."
1405,The assassins must have escaped through the other window.
1406,"We often cast a beam around the ship, but saw only dolphins, swimming parallel to our own drifting course."
1407,"And, as I have implied, it was not of the dead man himself that I became afraid."
1408,"I then paused, and a cold shivering came over me."
1409,Wyatt's conduct I did not so much regard.
1410,The few ineffectual words he had said concerning his duty were to me a further proof and the more I studied the letter the more did I perceive a thousand slight expressions that could only indicate a knowledge that life was now over for him.
1411,"Warped and bigoted with preconceived illusions of justice, freedom, and consistency, they cast off the old lore and the old ways with the old beliefs; nor ever stopped to think that that lore and those ways were the sole makers of their present thoughts and judgments, and the sole guides and standards in a meaningless universe without fixed aims or stable points of reference."
1412,"In Italy the rivers were unwatched by the diminished peasantry; and, like wild beasts from their lair when the hunters and dogs are afar, did Tiber, Arno, and Po, rush upon and destroy the fertility of the plains."
1413,"Monsieur Maillard, to my excessive astonishment threw himself under the side board."
1414,"And this was in truth the Death of which these bystanders spoke reverently, in low whispers you, sweet Una, gaspingly, with loud cries."
1415,"No, Thurber, these ancient places are dreaming gorgeously and overflowing with wonder and terror and escapes from the commonplace, and yet there's not a living soul to understand or profit by them."
1416,"The merit suggested is, at best, negative, and appertains to that hobbling criticism which, in letters, would elevate Addison into apotheosis."
1417,"As you know, the club wouldn't exhibit it, and the Museum of Fine Arts wouldn't accept it as a gift; and I can add that nobody would buy it, so Pickman had it right in his house till he went."
1418,"He wondered how it would look, for it had been left vacant and untended through his neglect since the death of his strange great uncle Christopher thirty years before."
1419,"Even to us he assumed gaiety and hope, and assumed them so well, that we did not divine the secret workings of his mind."
1420,"Good God In what desert land have you lived, where no one was kind enough to inform you that these fancies which you have so greedily imbibed are a thousand years old and as musty as they are ancient?"
1421,My opinion of the paragraph is founded principally upon its manner.
1422,I avoided explanation and maintained a continual silence concerning the wretch I had created.
1423,"The man had always shivered when he read this scroll, and Carter shivered now."
1424,The next day's paper had these additional particulars.
1425,"He bears it to the river, but leaves behind him the other evidences of guilt; for it is difficult, if not impossible to carry all the burthen at once, and it will be easy to return for what is left."
1426,"And the floor of the palace is of glass, under which flow the cunningly lighted waters of the Narg, gay with gaudy fish not known beyond the bounds of lovely Cathuria."""
1427,"""Three Four Five Six Seven Eight Nine Ten"" said the bell."
1428,"With my aversion to this cat, however, its partiality for myself seemed to increase."
1429,"We glow, we are consumed with eagerness to commence the work, with the anticipation of whose glorious result our whole souls are on fire."
1430,"IN the autumn of this year , the spirit of emigration crept in among the few survivors, who, congregating from various parts of England, met in London."
1431,"'Snob' is the nom de plume of Mr. Thingum Bob, of this city, a relative of the great Mr. Thingum, after whom he is named, and otherwise connected with the most illustrious families of the State."
1432,"She drifted towards the harbour, and was stranded on the sands at the entrance."
1433,"Her eyes glistened with tears when she thanked me, and the grace of her expressions was enhanced, not diminished, by the fervour, which caused her almost to falter as she spoke."
1434,At times I fancied that every contour of these blasphemous fish frogs was overflowing with the ultimate quintessence of unknown and inhuman evil.
1435,"The revenue of its possessor, which had always found a mode of expenditure congenial to his generous nature, was now attended to more parsimoniously, that it might embrace a wider portion of utility."
1436,"We now resolved to let off enough gas to bring our guide rope, with the buoys affixed, into the water."
1437,At every movement of the figure machinery is heard in motion.
1438,"The modern masters promise very little; they know that metals cannot be transmuted and that the elixir of life is a chimera but these philosophers, whose hands seem only made to dabble in dirt, and their eyes to pore over the microscope or crucible, have indeed performed miracles."
1439,She had not scorned my proposals.
1440,"He was more than ordinarily tender hearted, and he did not like the hideous screams he had heard in the ancient house just after the hour appointed for the deed."
1441,"The next morning it was taken from thence, without the knowledge of any of the officers."
1442,"On the memorable occasion of which I speak I was habited in a crimson satin dress, with a sky blue Arabian mantelet."
1443,"And then she adverted, with a blush, to the extreme recency of this date."
1444,"""If it is any point requiring reflection,"" observed Dupin, as he forebore to enkindle the wick, ""we shall examine it to better purpose in the dark."""
1445,"Last night I swallowed the drug and floated dreamily into the golden valley and the shadowy groves; and when I came this time to the antique wall, I saw that the small gate of bronze was ajar."
1446,"But anything was better than this agony Anything was more tolerable than this derision I could bear those hypocritical smiles no longer I felt that I must scream or die and now again hark louder louder louder louder ""Villains"" I shrieked, ""dissemble no more I admit the deed tear up the planks here, here It is the beating of his hideous heart"" BY late accounts from Rotterdam, that city seems to be in a high state of philosophical excitement."
1447,"It was there, beyond a doubt, and immediately beneath my feet; but, alas I had now ascended to so vast a distance, that nothing could with accuracy be discerned."
1448,"Nay, Henry might stand between me and the intrusion of my foe."
1449,I listened to this discourse with the extremest agony.
1450,"There he would meditate upon the visions that filled his mind, and there devise the forms of beauty which later became immortal in breathing marble."
1451,I have said that I awaked suddenly and in alarm.
1452,"But when the moon went over to the west and the still tide ebbed from the sullen shore, I saw in that light old spires that the waves almost uncovered, and white columns gay with festoons of green seaweed."
1453,"As we approached the brink of the pit he let go his hold upon this, and made for the ring, from which, in the agony of his terror, he endeavored to force my hands, as it was not large enough to afford us both a secure grasp."
1454,Who could be interested in the fate of a murderer but the hangman who would gain his fee?
1455,"Unwonted silence reigned in the house, the members spoke in whispers, and the ordinary business was transacted with celerity and quietness."
1456,"But from a certain nameless awe with which the mad assumptions of the mummer had inspired the whole party, there were found none who put forth hand to seize him; so that, unimpeded, he passed within a yard of the prince's person; and, while the vast assembly, as if with one impulse, shrank from the centres of the rooms to the walls, he made his way uninterruptedly, but with the same solemn and measured step which had distinguished him from the first, through the blue chamber to the purple through the purple to the green through the green to the orange through this again to the white and even thence to the violet, ere a decided movement had been made to arrest him."
1457,"The place was far from any road, and in sight of no other house, yet precautions were none the less necessary; since rumours of strange lights, started by chance nocturnal roamers, would soon bring disaster on our enterprise."
1458,"There was nothing like a ladder in the tomb, and the coffin niches on the sides and rear which Birch seldom took the trouble to use afforded no ascent to the space above the door."
1459,"Later he insulted Mr. Burke in so intolerable a Manner, that we all took Pains to shew our Disapproval; after which Incident he came no more to our Meetings."
1460,Then suddenly Old Bugs ceased to wield his javelin and stopped still drawing himself up more erectly than any denizen of the place had ever seen him before.
1461,"These streaks, at length, spreading out to a great distance, and entering into combination, took unto themselves the gyratory motion of the subsided vortices, and seemed to form the germ of another more vast."
1462,"The boxes were fairly even, and could be piled up like blocks; so he began to compute how he might most stably use the eight to rear a scalable platform four deep."
1463,"that face with the red eyes an' crinkly albino hair, an' no chin, like the Whateleys . . ."
1464,"Scarcely had he disappeared in the mist before, panting after him, with open mouth and glaring eyes, there darted a huge beast."
1465,"To day, looking upward as well as I could, through each of the side windows alternately, I beheld, to my great delight, a very small portion of the moon's disk protruding, as it were, on all sides beyond the huge circumference of the balloon."
1466,"Will you commune less with his departed spirit, while you watch over and cultivate the rare excellence of his child?"
1467,"Its expanse was relieved merely by three of Julien's exquisite lithographs a trois crayons, fastened to the wall without frames."
1468,Yet there have been many and wonderful automata.
1469,I must have been delirious for I even sought amusement in speculating upon the relative velocities of their several descents toward the foam below.
1470,"I spoke at length, and perseveringly of my devotion, of my passion of her exceeding beauty, and of my own enthusiastic admiration."
1471,"Perdita listened to me impatiently, and answered with some asperity: ""Do you think that any of your arguments are new to me? or that my own burning wishes and intense anguish have not suggested them all a thousand times, with far more eagerness and subtlety than you can put into them?"
1472,"The image of Clerval was forever before me, ghastly and murdered."
1473,"It was a divine spring, and the season contributed greatly to my convalescence."
1474,"""Be a little more explicit,"" I said."
1475,"""Morella"" ""The days have never been when thou couldst love me but her whom in life thou didst abhor, in death thou shalt adore."""
1476,"Still Perdita would expect him; he wrote a few incoherent words on a scrap of paper, testifying that he was well, and bade the woman of the house take it to the palace, and deliver it into the hands of the wife of the Lord Protector."
1477,What I did succeed in doing was to overhear the nocturnal playing of the dumb old man.
1478,"I wept for a long time untill I saw him about to revive, when horror and misery again recurred, and the tide of my sensations rolled back to their former channel: with a terror I could not restrain I sprung up and fled, with winged speed, along the paths of the wood and across the fields untill nearly dead I reached our house and just ordering the servants to seek my father at the spot I indicated, I shut myself up in my own room."
1479,Organs of articulate sound did not proclaim the union of our hearts; for untoward circumstance allowed no opportunity for the expression that hovered on our lips.
1480,I had several times seen him ride across the heath and felt angry that my solitude should be disturbed.
1481,Woodville was free from all these evils; and if slight examples did come across him he did not notice them but passed on in his course as an angel with winged feet might glide along the earth unimpeded by all those little obstacles over which we of earthly origin stumble.
1482,"When I had arrived at this point and had become as well acquainted with the theory and practice of natural philosophy as depended on the lessons of any of the professors at Ingolstadt, my residence there being no longer conducive to my improvements, I thought of returning to my friends and my native town, when an incident happened that protracted my stay."
1483,"We attempted to carry him into the cabin, but as soon as he had quitted the fresh air he fainted."
1484,"On perceiving me, the stranger addressed me in English, although with a foreign accent."
1485,"""Ninny"" said the fifth."
1486,"""Good God He is gone But tell how this was; speak quick"" Her relation was short."
1487,"In this there was much that reminded me of the specious totality of old wood work which has rotted for long years in some neglected vault, with no disturbance from the breath of the external air."
1488,"About , when Wilbur was a boy of ten whose mind, voice, stature, and bearded face gave all the impressions of maturity, a second great siege of carpentry went on at the old house."
1489,"""Have you, then, some other attachment?"" ""None on earth."
1490,"Besides, I found that my understanding improved so much with every day's experience that I was unwilling to commence this undertaking until a few more months should have added to my sagacity."
1491,The 'Oil of Bob' is the title of this masterpiece of eloquence and art.
1492,"The reception of his request seems to have been varied; but he must, at the very least, have received more responses than any ordinary man could have handled without a secretary."
1493,"It was a course of mortification to me, nevertheless, that although I made several attempts at conversation, my powers of speech were so entirely in abeyance, that I could not even open my mouth; much less, then, make reply to some ingenious but fanciful theories of which, under other circumstances, my minute acquaintance with the Hippocratian pathology would have afforded me a ready confutation."
1494,"His third, and most difficult of realization, was the contempt of ambition."
1495,"I see you profit by my advice, and are making the most of your time in inspecting the premises in satisfying your eyes With the memorials and the things of fame That most renown this city."
1496,What would we do without the Atalantic telegraph?
1497,"He said that some person, apparently in great haste, demanded to speak with me in the hall."
1498,It had been an eldritch thing no wonder sensitive students shudder at the Puritan age in Massachusetts.
1499,"He would have descended and asked the way to Ooth Nargai had not a fearsome aurora sputtered up from some remote place beyond the horizon, shewing the ruin and antiquity of the city, and the stagnation of the reedy river, and the death lying upon that land, as it had lain since King Kynaratholis came home from his conquests to find the vengeance of the gods."
1500,"He often left Perdita, to wander in the grounds alone; or in a light shallop he floated idly on the pure waters, musing deeply."
1501,"The press cuttings, as I have intimated, touched on cases of panic, mania, and eccentricity during the given period."
1502,"They glistened bloated and green in the moonbeams, and seemed to gaze up at the fount of light."
1503,Idris must not see him in this state.
1504,The horse then galopped swiftly across the heath and the stranger remained on the ground stunned by his fall.
1505,"The change of scene operated to a great degree as I expected; after a year's absence, Perdita returned in gentler and more docile mood to Windsor."
1506,"A friend holds one of the diddler's promises to pay, filled up and signed in due form, upon the ordinary blanks printed in red ink."
1507,"Here aloft, the companions of the swift winged birds, we skim through the unresisting element, fleetly and fearlessly."
1508,"My immediate actions were peculiar for such a situation, but it is only in tales that a man does the dramatic and foreseen thing."
1509,"Aye, I might die my soul with falsehood untill I had quite hid its native colour."
1510,"Here the dense growth of weeds and briers hindered me and cruelly tore my clothes, but I was none the less glad that they were there to give me concealment in case of peril."
1511,"There was talk of a complaint to the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals; but nothing ever came of it, since Dunwich folk are never anxious to call the outside world's attention to themselves."
1512,"how can you?"" interrupted the object of my animadversions, gasping for breath, and tearing off, with a desperate exertion, the bandage around its jaws ""how can you, Mr. Lackobreath, be so infernally cruel as to pinch me in that manner by the nose?"
1513,"Presently I heard the sound of footsteps along the passage; the door opened, and the wretch whom I dreaded appeared."
1514,Here my friend opened his eyes to some extent.
1515,"The spot where we discovered the scarabaeus was on the coast of the main land, about a mile eastward of the island, and but a short distance above high water mark."
1516,"We chose our house with the greatest care, seizing at last on a rather run down cottage near the end of Pond Street; five numbers from the closest neighbour, and separated from the local potter's field by only a stretch of meadow land, bisected by a narrow neck of the rather dense forest which lies to the north."
1517,But then we had been so imprudent as to broach the subject ourselves.
1518,They were formed for one another and they soon loved.
1519,"Of Mademoiselle Salle it has been well said, ""Que tous ses pas etaient des sentiments,"" and of Berenice I more seriously believed que toutes ses dents etaient des idees."
1520,"I now visited the accursed place with increased frequency; studying the unwholesome vegetation of the garden, examining all the walls of the building, and poring over every inch of the earthen cellar floor."
1521,"""It is not my present design,"" he said, ""to dwell upon the first and second of those extracts."
1522,The physical suffering I underwent contributed also to render me nearly incapable of making any exertion for the preservation of my life.
1523,The error here involved a gross error redolent of mischief I cannot pretend to expose within the limits assigned me at present; and with the philosophical it needs no exposure.
1524,"A furious delirium possessed all men; and, with arms rigidly outstretched towards the threatening heavens, they trembled and shrieked aloud."
1525,I speak of this point chiefly for the sake of method; for the strength of Madame L'Espanaye would have been utterly unequal to the task of thrusting her daughter's corpse up the chimney as it was found; and the nature of the wounds upon her own person entirely preclude the idea of self destruction.
1526,"Though the northward pull had not diminished, he resisted it as he had resisted the other pull, and finally found that he could almost balance the one against the other."
1527,"But, of course, the chances are five or six to one, that the finder will repair to the address given by the diddler, rather than to that pointed out by the rightful proprietor."
1528,"I was not angry on my own account, but I felt as if the praises which this idol received were leaves torn from laurels destined for Adrian."
1529,"Could we domesticate a cub of this wild beast, and not fear its growth and maturity?"
1530,"Yet could no act be performed to check the impending cataclysm; for the swart, sinister men were old in cunning."
1531,Are you to be happy while I grovel in the intensity of my wretchedness?
1532,"""Bless me it is an ape"" True a baboon; but by no means the less a deity."
1533,"So far from it, I still lay nearly level with the plane of the horizon; for the change of situation which I had acquired, had forced the bottom of the car considerably outwards from my position, which was accordingly one of the most imminent and deadly peril."
1534,"Pascal, a philosopher whom we both love, has said, how truly ""que tout notre raisonnement se rèduit à céder au sentiment;"" and it is not impossible that the sentiment of the natural, had time permitted it, would have regained its old ascendancy over the harsh mathematical reason of the schools."
1535,"With his arms folded, and with one bandaged leg deposited upon the table, he seemed to think himself entitled to some consideration."
1536,"Yet when I effected my purpose, all I could discern within the precincts of the massive walls was a city of fire: the open way through which Raymond had ridden was enveloped in smoke and flame."
1537,"He did not raise his, but after a short silence he replied to me in a low voice: ""You are indeed presumptuous, Mathilda, presumptuous and very rash."
1538,"Assuredly he had not conned his lesson; and at first he hesitated, pausing in his ideas, and in the choice of his expressions."
1539,"This I did by removing a small portion of the shifting boards, in such a manner as to afford me a convenient retreat between the huge timbers of the ship."
1540,"In the south, the disease, virulent and immedicable, had nearly annihilated the race of man; storm and inundation, poisonous winds and blights, filled up the measure of suffering."
1541,"Surely, I had little enough chance of rescue."
1542,"Calm, lasting beauty comes only in dream, and this solace the world had thrown away when in its worship of the real it threw away the secrets of childhood and innocence."
1543,"From what he related, it was clear that he must have been conscious of life for more than an hour, while inhumed, before lapsing into insensibility."
1544,A suggestion to this effect is usually rejected by the intellect at once.
1545,The heart had ceased to beat.
1546,"At the battle of Makri he had led the charge of cavalry, and pursued the fugitives even to the banks of the Hebrus."
1547,"The next day all the countryside was in a panic; and cowed, uncommunicative groups came and went where the fiendish thing had occurred."
1548,That since he is The Most Happy must be still the one thing unknown even to Him.
1549,"Jermyn could form no conjecture, but by close questioning obtained a very picturesque legend of the stuffed goddess."
1550,"I had drilled myself in preparation for the crucial moment, and blind training saved me."
1551,"This, he said, was to neutralise the compound and release the system to a normal relaxation so that the reanimating solution might freely work when injected."
1552,"Fastening one end of this at that point of the trunk, of the tree which was nearest the peg, he unrolled it till it reached the peg, and thence farther unrolled it, in the direction already established by the two points of the tree and the peg, for the distance of fifty feet Jupiter clearing away the brambles with the scythe."
1553,"He had protested then, when they had found him, waked him, and carried him home, for just as he was aroused he had been about to sail in a golden galley for those alluring regions where the sea meets the sky."
1554,"I believe I did ridiculous things such as offering prayers to Artemis, Latona, Demeter, Persephone, and Plouton."
1555,"They insisted that this was Kingsport, and I could not deny it."
1556,"But it was not so, I was yet young, Oh far too young, nor was he dead to others; but I, most miserable, must never see or speak to him again."
1557,"I had wandered towards Bracknel, far to the west of Windsor."
1558,"We saw it not as an astronomical phenomenon in the heavens, but as an incubus upon our hearts, and a shadow upon our brains."
1559,"Frequently, too, pausing in the middle of a sentence whose commencement he had apparently forgotten, he seemed to be listening in the deepest attention, as if either in momentary expectation of a visiter, or to sounds which must have had existence in his imagination alone."
1560,"The newcomer was a thin, dark man of medium height attired in the clerical garb of the Anglican church."
1561,"""You zee,"" said he, ""it iz te bess vor zit still; and now you shall know who I pe."
1562,"And to our chamber there was no entrance save by a lofty door of brass: and the door was fashioned by the artisan Corinnos, and, being of rare workmanship, was fastened from within."
1563,And there is an indistinct murmur which cometh out from among them like the rushing of subterrene water.
1564,"This effect is brought about by decomposition, or otherwise."
1565,"But, Heaven bless me what is the matter?"
1566,"Whenever I sat, it would crouch beneath my chair, or spring upon my knees, covering me with its loathsome caresses."
1567,"He said this in his most gay, yet benevolent manner, and smiled, not disdainfully, but in playful mockery of himself."
1568,"He had introduced himself to Adrian, by a request he made to observe some planetary motions from his glass."
1569,I had visited it frequently during my boyhood.
1570,This is the usual effect of such coincidences.
1571,"Saying this, he suddenly quitted me, fearful, perhaps, of any change in my sentiments."
1572,"""The nitre"" I said: ""see, it increases."
1573,"There was so much intelligence combined with innocence, sensibility with forbearance, and seriousness with perfect good humour, a beauty so transcendant, united to such endearing simplicity, that she hung like a pearl in the shrine of our possessions, a treasure of wonder and excellence."
1574,"The smell of the sea took on ominous implications, and the silent driver's bent, rigid back and narrow head became more and more hateful."
1575,"England, late birth place of excellence and school of the wise, thy children are gone, thy glory faded Thou, England, wert the triumph of man Small favour was shewn thee by thy Creator, thou Isle of the North; a ragged canvas naturally, painted by man with alien colours; but the hues he gave are faded, never more to be renewed."
1576,"One only return did he owe me, even fidelity."
1577,Still his mother did not despair.
1578,"In the meantime, we had been swept astern of the ship, and being quite out of her lee, were at the mercy of the tremendous sea which was still running."
1579,"Fool that I was to plunge with such unsanctioned phrensy into mysteries no man was meant to penetrate; fool or god that he was my only friend, who led me and went before me, and who in the end passed into terrors which may yet be mine."
1580,This was not universal.
1581,"Young Wilcox's rejoinder, which impressed my uncle enough to make him recall and record it verbatim, was of a fantastically poetic cast which must have typified his whole conversation, and which I have since found highly characteristic of him."
1582,"Perhaps the eye of a scrutinizing observer might have discovered a barely perceptible fissure, which, extending from the roof of the building in front, made its way down the wall in a zigzag direction, until it became lost in the sullen waters of the tarn."
1583,"It is no longer philosophical to base, upon what has been, a vision of what is to be."
1584,"As my grand uncle's heir and executor, for he died a childless widower, I was expected to go over his papers with some thoroughness; and for that purpose moved his entire set of files and boxes to my quarters in Boston."
1585,The shutter was kicked open again by the Ourang Outang as it entered the room.
1586,"Then came the shift as vast converging planes of a slippery looking substance loomed above and below him a shift which ended in a flash of delirium and a blaze of unknown, alien light in which yellow, carmine, and indigo were madly and inextricably blended."
1587,"The spirit of superstition had birth, from the wreck of our hopes, and antics wild and dangerous were played on the great theatre, while the remaining particle of futurity dwindled into a point in the eyes of the prognosticators."
1588,"The first and most obvious inference is, that so strong a light is requisite to enable the man within to see through the transparent material probably fine gauze of which the breast of the Turk is composed."
1589,"Sewers came, but they passed by it."
1590,"All egress from my chamber, except through a window, was cut off."
1591,"Let us place the first move in a game of chess, in juxta position with the data of an algebraical question, and their great difference will be immediately perceived."
1592,"The true wretchedness, indeed the ultimate woe is particular, not diffuse."
1593,"But in that bitter tirade upon Chantilly, which appeared in yesterday's 'Musée,' the satirist, making some disgraceful allusions to the cobbler's change of name upon assuming the buskin, quoted a Latin line about which we have often conversed."
1594,Something very like fright had come over all the explorers before anything more definite than rock and ooze and weed was seen.
1595,"""To be sure,"" said I, ""to be sure They behave a little odd, eh? they are a little queer, eh? don't you think so?"" ""Odd queer why, do you really think so?"
1596,"Cast by that ruffian, Gruff, who made me a present of five dollars."
1597,"A cry rose from the crowd, and Dr. Armitage shouted to the men outside that no one must be admitted till the police or medical examiner came."
1598,"I must not be trifled with, and I demand an answer."
1599,"In our happiest days, Perdita had adorned her cottage with every aid art might bring, to that which nature had selected to favour."
1600,"""Justine, you may remember, was a great favourite of yours; and I recollect you once remarked that if you were in an ill humour, one glance from Justine could dissipate it, for the same reason that Ariosto gives concerning the beauty of Angelica she looked so frank hearted and happy."
1601,"We still had some attendants spared by disease, and warmly attached to us."
1602,I saw vessels near the shore and found myself suddenly transported back to the neighbourhood of civilized man.
1603,"The forest glades, the ferny dells, and lawny uplands, the cultivated and cheerful country spread around the silver pathway of ancient Thames, all earth, air, and wave, took up one choral voice, inspired by memory, instinct with plaintive regret."
1604,"But now, as soon as the horses arrived, I hurried into a cabriolet, and bade farewell to my friend."
1605,"And as I watched the ripples that told of the writhing of worms beneath, I felt a new chill from afar out whither the condor had flown, as if my flesh had caught a horror before my eyes had seen it."
1606,"I dashed the spectacles violently to the ground, and, leaping to my feet, stood erect in the middle of the floor, confronting Mrs. Simpson, with my arms set a kimbo, and grinning and foaming, but, at the same time, utterly speechless with terror and with rage."
1607,As he walked toward the bus I observed his peculiarly shambling gait and saw that his feet were inordinately immense.
1608,"But this discovery was so great and overwhelming that all the steps by which I had been progressively led to it were obliterated, and I beheld only the result."
1609,"The sexton departed, and I was left alone."
1610,"Yet only under such circumstances is it possible to imagine that he would have failed, if alive, in the denouncement of the assassins."
1611,"William Harris, at last thoroughly convinced of the radically unhealthful nature of his abode, now took steps toward quitting it and closing it forever."
1612,The moon I gazed with a kind of wonder.
1613,"""Is there no way, then, sir,"" she murmurs, ""in which I may be permitted to testify my gratitude?"""
1614,"It wearied Carter to see how solemnly people tried to make earthly reality out of old myths which every step of their boasted science confuted, and this misplaced seriousness killed the attachment he might have kept for the ancient creeds had they been content to offer the sonorous rites and emotional outlets in their true guise of ethereal fantasy."
1615,"On the th of December of that year, my companion and I crossed the Bay, to visit the antiquities which are scattered on the shores of Baiae."
1616,"I cannot express the wild, breathless suspense with which we waited for results on this first really fresh specimen the first we could reasonably expect to open its lips in rational speech, perhaps to tell of what it had seen beyond the unfathomable abyss."
1617,"He sometimes dreamed better when awake, and he wanted to use that key."
1618,"It was, in fact, nothing more or less than an abundant supply of freshly killed men in every stage of dismemberment."
1619,"The natural clinging of the human mind to life and joy was in its full energy in her young heart; she gave herself impetuously up to the enchantment: they were married; and in their radiant features I saw incarnate, for the last time, the spirit of love, of rapturous sympathy, which once had been the life of the world."
1620,"Evadne was two years older than Adrian; and who, at eighteen, ever loved one so much their junior?"
1621,"Toward morning I must have dropped asleep with the lights on, for I awoke in darkness yesterday afternoon to find the batteries dead."
1622,The depth in the centre of the Moskoe ström must be immeasurably greater; and no better proof of this fact is necessary than can be obtained from even the sidelong glance into the abyss of the whirl which may be had from the highest crag of Helseggen.
1623,"Poor girl She wept when she quitted our house; she was much altered since the death of my aunt; grief had given softness and a winning mildness to her manners, which had before been remarkable for vivacity."
1624,"In the course of our discussion, my young friend took occasion to quote some passages from a writer who has been supposed to have well treated this theme."
1625,"But though men talked of great changes, The Street felt them not; for its folk were still the same, speaking of the old familiar things in the old familiar accents."
1626,"""The balloon is composed of silk, varnished with the liquid gum caoutchouc."
1627,"For out of an opened door in the Gilman House a large crowd of doubtful shapes was pouring lanterns bobbing in the darkness, and horrible croaking voices exchanging low cries in what was certainly not English."
1628,"Pardon, Agathos, the weakness of a spirit new fledged with immortality AGATHOS."
1629,"They went to the river to break the ice, and draw water: they assembled on foraging expeditions, or axe in hand felled the trees for fuel."
1630,"On the green and flowery mountains of Cathuria stand temples of pink marble, rich with carven and painted glories, and having in their courtyards cool fountains of silver, where purl with ravishing music the scented waters that come from the grotto born river Narg."
1631,"All I can say is, that it is so."
1632,Every now and then one might catch a glimpse of the scoundrel through the smoke.
1633,"Now, in my case, the versed sine that is to say, the thickness of the segment beneath me was about equal to my elevation, or the elevation of the point of sight above the surface."
1634,"I had, I felt, been halted by a barrier which my friend and leader had successfully passed."
1635,"Among a race of independent, and generous, and well educated men, in a country where the imagination is empress of men's minds, there needs be no fear that we should want a perpetual succession of the high born and lordly."
1636,I renounced it to gain no matter what for that also I have lost.
1637,"Nothing to be seen though nothing to be done but flirt, feast and dance in the magnificent saloons."
1638,"I said something about the ""peculiar shape of that box ,"" and, as I spoke the words, I smiled knowingly, winked, and touched him gently with my forefinger in the ribs."
1639,"It could not be denied that our atmosphere was radically affected; the conformation of this atmosphere and the possible modifications to which it might be subjected, were now the topics of discussion."
1640,The visiter left the city in the early morning.
1641,"In the meantime the young gentlemen, one and all, are somewhat less piously inclined than before, while the landlady purchases a shilling's worth of the Indian rubber, and very carefully obliterates the pencil memorandum that some fool has made in her great family Bible, on the broad margin of the Proverbs of Solomon."
1642,The words of his letter by which he had dissuaded me from this step were those that determined me.
1643,"After the beams came clouds, and then I slept."
1644,"The villagers of Hatheg say it is ill to climb Hatheg Kla at any time, and deadly to climb it by night when pale vapours hide the summit and the moon; but Barzai heeded them not when he came from neighbouring Ulthar with the young priest Atal, who was his disciple."
1645,"""William is dead that sweet child, whose smiles delighted and warmed my heart, who was so gentle, yet so gay Victor, he is murdered ""I will not attempt to console you; but will simply relate the circumstances of the transaction."
1646,"""You have, of course, an accurate description of the letter?"""
1647,Apparently the horror had descended by a route much the same as that of its ascent.
1648,"Wyatt's two sisters I knew very well, and most amiable and clever girls they were."
1649,"The gentle manners and beauty of the cottagers greatly endeared them to me; when they were unhappy, I felt depressed; when they rejoiced, I sympathized in their joys."
1650,But there are some points in the Hungarian superstition which were fast verging to absurdity.
1651,"Relieved of my seizure in a marvellously short while, I left the shivery place a disciple and devotee of the gifted recluse."
1652,"But in death only, was I fully impressed with the strength of her affection."
1653,"By long suffering my nerves had been unstrung, until I trembled at the sound of my own voice, and had become in every respect a fitting subject for the species of torture which awaited me."
1654,"Its banks, of the emerald grass already described, rounded, rather than sloped, off into the clear heaven below; and so clear was this heaven, so perfectly, at times, did it reflect all objects above it, that where the true bank ended and where the mimic one commenced, it was a point of no little difficulty to determine."
1655,"Only an effort halted him at a cafeteria in Church Street, and after the meal he felt the unknown pull still more strongly."
1656,"Here upon earth, at least, philosophy, I am persuaded, will always in vain call upon us to look upon qualities as things."
1657,"""We cannot hope to live so long in our names as some have done in their persons; one face of Janus holds no proportion to the other."""
1658,But this thing was not to be.
1659,"No person present even affected to deny, or attempted to repress, the unutterable, shuddering horror which these few words, thus uttered, were so well calculated to convey."
1660,"""Bête"" said the first."
1661,I said the child grew strangely in stature and intelligence.
1662,"The people now, dismissing any lingering hope that the astronomers were wrong, experienced all the certainty of evil."
1663,"""And then,"" said somebody else, ""then there was Petit Gaillard, who thought himself a pinch of snuff, and was truly distressed because he could not take himself between his own finger and thumb."""
1664,Were not the mightiest men of the olden times kings?
1665,"Perhaps there was besides a lurking dislike to bind herself in the face of the world to one whom she did not love not love, at least, with that passionate enthusiasm which her heart told her she might one day feel towards another."
1666,A few passes threw Mr. Vankirk into the mesmeric sleep.
1667,"The Automaton plays with his left arm, because under no other circumstances could the man within play with his right a desideratum of course."
1668,"For some unknown reason I dreaded the thought of disturbing the ancient bog and its sunless secrets, and pictured terrible sights lying black under the unmeasured depth of age old peat."
1669,I told him I would be tender of his feelings ossi tender que beefsteak.
1670,"Sometimes, indeed, I dreamt that I wandered in flowery meadows and pleasant vales with the friends of my youth, but I awoke and found myself in a dungeon."
1671,"On account of the general alarm and precautions, there were only two more victims, and the capture was effected without major casualties."
1672,It was in the dark of September th that the horror broke loose.
1673,"I smiled incredulously, and replied: ""I am of Ryland's way of thinking, and will, if you please, repeat all his arguments; we shall see how far you will be induced by them, to change the royal for the patriotic style."""
1674,"There were vague statements about disease and concentration camps, and later about dispersal in various naval and military prisons, but nothing positive ever developed."
1675,"On reflection, he was glad he had not consulted the still more inquisitive college doctor."
1676,"Even if they were to leave Europe and inhabit the deserts of the new world, yet one of the first results of those sympathies for which the daemon thirsted would be children, and a race of devils would be propagated upon the earth who might make the very existence of the species of man a condition precarious and full of terror."
1677,"I saw him too; he was free last night"" ""I do not know what you mean,"" replied my brother, in accents of wonder, ""but to us the discovery we have made completes our misery."
1678,"Barzai knew so much of the gods that he could tell of their comings and goings, and guessed so many of their secrets that he was deemed half a god himself."
1679,"Frankenstein, who was dozing, awoke and asked the cause of the tumult."
1680,"I formed in my imagination a thousand pictures of presenting myself to them, and their reception of me."
1681,"The first stroke of the razorlike crescent athwart any portion of the band, would so detach it that it might be unwound from my person by means of my left hand."
1682,"Antiochus the Illustrious also 'Prince of ts,' 'Glory of the East,' 'Delight of the Universe,' and 'Most Remarkable of Cameleopards' Heavens what a power of speed thou art displaying What a capacity for leg bail thou art developing Run, Prince Bravo, Epiphanes Well done, Cameleopard Glorious Antiochus He runs he leaps he flies Like an arrow from a catapult he approaches the hippodrome He leaps he shrieks he is there This is well; for hadst thou, 'Glory of the East,' been half a second longer in reaching the gates of the Amphitheatre, there is not a bear's cub in Epidaphne that would not have had a nibble at thy carcase."
1683,"One thing you must promise, not to speak to any one but your uncle, of the conversation you have just overheard."
1684,"He had carried off their store of winter food, and placing it in a sledge, to draw which he had seized on a numerous drove of trained dogs, he had harnessed them, and the same night, to the joy of the horror struck villagers, had pursued his journey across the sea in a direction that led to no land; and they conjectured that he must speedily be destroyed by the breaking of the ice or frozen by the eternal frosts."
1685,"What, in its chrysalis condition of principle, affronted their demure reason, never fails, in its maturity of accomplishment, to extort admiration from their instinct of the beautiful or of the sublime."
1686,"This, of course, was a matter briefly and easily ascertained, by noticing the proportion of the pitcher filled in any given time."
1687,"others'll worship with us at meetin' time, an' sarten haouses hez got to entertain guests . . ."
1688,"I administered the fitting remedies, and left my sweet niece to watch beside him, and bring me notice of any change she should observe."
1689,"We did not descend far, and when after several hours the sea was calmer, we decided to return to the surface."
1690,"""Our first slide into the abyss itself, from the belt of foam above, had carried us a great distance down the slope; but our farther descent was by no means proportionate."
1691,"I am the descendant of a race whose imaginative and easily excitable temperament has at all times rendered them remarkable; and, in my earliest infancy, I gave evidence of having fully inherited the family character."
1692,"He had thought he heard rats in the partitions all the evening, but paid little attention to them."
1693,"If she were to continue inflexible in the line of conduct she now pursued, they must part."
1694,"How strange, I thought, that the same cause should produce such opposite effects I examined the materials of the fire, and to my joy found it to be composed of wood."
1695,"It appeared that I was a provincial quæstor named L. Cælius Rufus, and that I had been summoned by the proconsul, P. Scribonius Libo, who had come from Tarraco some days before."
1696,Closet after closet drawer after drawer corner after corner were scrutinized to no purpose.
1697,I had no lack of what the world calls wealth.
1698,For my hope who shall see it?
1699,"I admired his clearness and persistence, and added some further revelations I had collected among the old people."
1700,"The left arm of the figure is bent at the elbow, and in the left hand is a pipe."
1701,"""Let me see, Trever,"" continued the defaulter, ""didn't Schultz say your mother is a literary person, too?"" ""Yes, damn it,"" replied Trever, ""but nothing like the old Teian She's one of those dull, eternal moralisers that try to take all the joy out of life."
1702,The terror which brought me to the scene was a sudden and portentous confirmation of the mountaineers' wildest legends.
1703,"I came upon them suddenly in the leafy June, and threw myself upon the turf, beneath the branches of an unknown odorous shrub, that I might doze as I contemplated the scene."
1704,Do you hear anything?
1705,"""No doubt you will think me fanciful but I had already established a kind of connexion."
1706,In height he might have been below rather than above the medium size: although there were moments of intense passion when his frame actually expanded and belied the assertion.
1707,"Why, my dear sir, that cameleopard is no other than Antiochus Epiphanes, Antiochus the Illustrious, King of Syria, and the most potent of all the autocrats of the East It is true, that he is entitled, at times, Antiochus Epimanes Antiochus the madman but that is because all people have not the capacity to appreciate his merits."
1708,"To say the truth, he has something of more importance than a watch to attend to and what that is, I shall presently explain."
1709,I knew my acquaintance to be wealthy.
1710,"At sight of these the joy of Jupiter could scarcely be restrained, but the countenance of his master wore an air of extreme disappointment He urged us, however, to continue our exertions, and the words were hardly uttered when I stumbled and fell forward, having caught the toe of my boot in a large ring of iron that lay half buried in the loose earth."
1711,"I have been assured that Suky is but a vulgar corruption of Psyche, which is good Greek, and means ""the soul"" that's me, I'm all soul and sometimes ""a butterfly,"" which latter meaning undoubtedly alludes to my appearance in my new crimson satin dress, with the sky blue Arabian mantelet, and the trimmings of green agraffas, and the seven flounces of orange colored auriculas."
1712,But why is this man absent?
1713,In the present instance they were fully eight inches wide; but their glory was altogether eclipsed by the gorgeous splendor of the profuse blossoms.
1714,"On the third day Slater was found unconscious in the hollow of a tree, and taken to the nearest gaol; where alienists from Albany examined him as soon as his senses returned."
1715,"Somewhere, to what remote and fearsome region I know not, Denys Barry has gone."
1716,"My mind, as alert as my senses, recognised the gravely unusual; and almost automatically I leaped up and turned about to grasp the destructive instruments which we had left trained on the mouldy spot before the fireplace."
1717,"Jupiter; bring me that scarabæus"" ""What de bug, massa?"
1718,There can be no community between you and me; we are enemies.
1719,"That the influence of the old house was unwholesome, he could not deny; but traces of his early morbid interest still held him there."
1720,"As soon as he fairly settled himself, he commenced an oration, which, no doubt, was a very capital one, if it could only have been heard."
1721,"This is partly pleasing to the eye, by the show of order and design, and partly moral."
1722,I was encompassed by a cloud which no beneficial influence could penetrate.
1723,"She encouraged his craving for knowledge and his impetuous courage; she even tolerated his tameless love of freedom, under the hope that this would, as is too often the case, lead to a passion for command."
1724,"""The revolution which has just been made by the Fay,"" continued I, musingly, ""is the cycle of the brief year of her life."
1725,"At first the increase of sickness in spring brought increase of toil to such of us, who, as yet spared to life, bestowed our time and thoughts on our fellow creatures."
1726,"Through hunger and through thirst, I wrote."
1727,"They say there is no land of Lomar, save in my nocturnal imaginings; that in those realms where the Pole Star shines high and red Aldebaran crawls low around the horizon, there has been naught save ice and snow for thousands of years, and never a man save squat yellow creatures, blighted by the cold, whom they call ""Esquimaux""."
1728,"Degraded and ignorant as they were, the creatures held with surprising consistency to the central idea of their loathsome faith."
1729,"Of the name and abode of this man but little is written, for they were of the waking world only; yet it is said that both were obscure."
1730,"She lit up every thing about us with the greatest distinctness but, oh God, what a scene it was to light up ""I now made one or two attempts to speak to my brother but, in some manner which I could not understand, the din had so increased that I could not make him hear a single word, although I screamed at the top of my voice in his ear."
1731,"Some said the thunder called the lurking fear out of its habitation, while others said the thunder was its voice."
1732,"Meanwhile her active fancy wove a thousand combinations; she dreamt ""of moving accidents by flood and field"" she lost herself delightedly in these self created wanderings, and returned with unwilling spirit to the dull detail of common life."
1733,"I hear a noise at the door, as of some immense slippery body lumbering against it."
1734,"Shutting the door, he approached me and said in a smothered voice, ""You have destroyed the work which you began; what is it that you intend?"
1735,"He sent even to Italy and Greece for drawings; but, as the design was to be characterized by originality as well as by perfect beauty, his endeavours were for a time without avail."
1736,"And at length the period of our nuptials was approaching, when, upon an afternoon in the winter of the year one of those unseasonably warm, calm, and misty days which are the nurse of the beautiful Halcyon , I sat, and sat, as I thought, alone, in the inner apartment of the library."
1737,Some of our best novelists patronize this tone.
1738,"His oddities certainly did not look Asiatic, Polynesian, Levantine, or negroid, yet I could see why the people found him alien."
1739,"As I hurried home through those narrow, winding, mist choked waterfront streets I had a frightful impression of being stealthily followed by softly padding feet."
1740,"Shall I meet you again, after having traversed immense seas, and returned by the most southern cape of Africa or America?"
1741,"By means of the rudder, the machine was readily turned in any direction."
1742,"He tore it, made it fast about the neck, and so dragged his victim to the brink of the river."
1743,"The air resounded with their shouts; their picturesque costume, and the gay colours of which it was composed, flaunted in the sunshine; their eager gestures and rapid utterance accorded with their wild appearance."
1744,"That at least two of the fear's embodiments were destroyed, formed but a slight guarantee of mental and physical safety in this Acheron of multiform diabolism; yet I continued my quest with even greater zeal as events and revelations became more monstrous."
1745,"You shall conquer, for my sake, this affectation which leads you, as you yourself acknowledge, to the tacit or implied denial of your infirmity of vision."
1746,"As he threw it open, a flash of red light, streaming far into the chamber, flung his shadow with a clear outline against the quivering tapestry, and he shuddered to perceive that shadow as he staggered awhile upon the threshold assuming the exact position, and precisely filling up the contour, of the relentless and triumphant murderer of the Saracen Berlifitzing."
1747,"I joined the weaker party, arming myself with the weapons of a fallen officer, and fighting I knew not whom with the nervous ferocity of despair."
1748,"Groping about the masonry just below the margin, I succeeded in dislodging a small fragment, and let it fall into the abyss."
1749,It was not a strong or even a fairly strong light; certainly not nearly strong enough to read an average book by.
1750,Only his tendency toward a dazed stupor prevented him from screaming aloud.
1751,At this period the name and exploits of one of my countrymen filled the world with admiration.
1752,"For good reasons, however, I did my best to give the crowd the worth of their trouble."
1753,I am an entity like that which you yourself become in the freedom of dreamless sleep.
1754,"The excellent administration of your affairs here is well understood in Paris, and I thought it just possible, you know ""Yes, yes say no more or rather it is myself who should thank you for the commendable prudence you have displayed."
1755,Yet his reasons have not yet been matured into expression.
1756,"At length he approached the huge trunk, walked slowly around it, and examined it with minute attention."
1757,"If I did not hit upon the village before sunset, or even before dark, it was more than possible that a little Dutch farmhouse, or something of that kind, would soon make its appearance although, in fact, the neighborhood perhaps on account of being more picturesque than fertile was very sparsely inhabited."
1758,"It was more horrible than anything I had ever overheard, because I could now see the expression of his face, and could realise that this time the motive was stark fear."
1759,"Guided by a slight clue, I followed the windings of the Rhone, but vainly."
1760,"There was so much of truth and nature in his resentment, that her doubts were dispelled."
1761,"""And the numerous temples, sumptuous and magnificent, may bear comparison with the most lauded of antiquity."""
1762,"Alas He is cold, he cannot answer me."""
1763,The contest was brief indeed.
1764,"What can I say? if you refuse to aid me, I am lost indeed"" She cast up her eyes, while wonder held her auditors mute; then, as if carried away by her feelings, she cried ""My brother beloved, ill fated Adrian how speak of your misfortunes?"
1765,"Yet in fact in the fact of the world's view how little was there to remember The morning's awakening, the nightly summons to bed; the connings, the recitations; the periodical half holidays, and perambulations; the play ground, with its broils, its pastimes, its intrigues; these, by a mental sorcery long forgotten, were made to involve a wilderness of sensation, a world of rich incident, an universe of varied emotion, of excitement the most passionate and spirit stirring."
1766,"However, it was hardly morning, and I might reasonably hope to arrive by night."
1767,"To one lie, second class; damaged black cloth sold for invisible green............................................... JULY ."
1768,"The Assault and Battery business, into which I was now forced to adventure for a livelihood, was somewhat ill adapted to the delicate nature of my constitution; but I went to work in it with a good heart, and found my account here, as heretofore, in those stern habits of methodical accuracy which had been thumped into me by that delightful old nurse I would indeed be the basest of men not to remember her well in my will."
1769,"It seems as if the giant waves of ocean, and vast arms of the sea, were about to wrench the deep rooted island from its centre; and cast it, a ruin and a wreck, upon the fields of the Atlantic."
1770,"He had heard, meanwhile, of Whateley's grotesque trip to Cambridge, and of his frantic efforts to borrow or copy from the Necronomicon at the Widener Library."
1771,"When the clown laughs, his lips, his eyes, his eye brows, and eyelids indeed, all the features of his countenance are imbued with their appropriate expressions."
1772,Early risers on the th noticed a peculiar stench in the air.
1773,"The shrill voice, this witness thinks, was that of an Italian."
1774,"It would require but five minutes at most to regenerate the atmosphere in the fullest manner, and the only real difficulty was to contrive a method of arousing myself at the proper moment for so doing."
1775,"The ""Gad Fly"" was, of course, brought upon the tapis, and I hope never to be subjected to a criticism so searching, or to rebukes so withering, as were bestowed by Mr. Crab upon that unhappy effusion."
1776,"Recourse was had to figures, and these but sufficed to confound."
1777,"In painting and gemmary, Fortunato, like his countrymen, was a quack but in the matter of old wines he was sincere."
1778,"If he has a project in view, he conceals his design with a marvellous wisdom; and the dexterity with which he counterfeits sanity, presents, to the metaphysician, one of the most singular problems in the study of mind."
1779,"All at once Dupin broke forth with these words: ""He is a very little fellow, that's true, and would do better for the Théâtre des Variétés."""
1780,"In the midst of these reflections, as if dramatically arranged to intensify them, there fell near by a terrific bolt of lightning followed by the sound of sliding earth."
1781,"The disposition of Idris was peculiarly frank, soft, and affectionate."
1782,"It took a pinch with great satisfaction, and smiled me an acknowledgement in return."
1783,"I hated the mocking moon, the hypocritical plain, the festering mountain, and those sinister mounds."
1784,Are we not part and parcel in Thee?
1785,"Reading the life of Theseus, I was much impressed by that passage telling of the great stone beneath which the boyish hero was to find his tokens of destiny whenever he should become old enough to lift its enormous weight."
1786,I remained for several years their only child.
1787,"After the lapse of more than a year, Adrian returned from Greece."
1788,"But, as I was saying, we soon began to feel the effects of liberty and long speeches, and radicalism, and all that sort of thing."
1789,"I staggered forward at once, and a few steps brought me to the vestibule of the building."
1790,"Those Old Ones were gone now, inside the earth and under the sea; but their dead bodies had told their secrets in dreams to the first men, who formed a cult which had never died."
1791,And there were cobblestones over which clattered many a blooded horse and rumbled many a gilded coach; and brick sidewalks with horse blocks and hitching posts.
1792,"Well, so far we had ridden the swells very cleverly; but presently a gigantic sea happened to take us right under the counter, and bore us with it as it rose up up as if into the sky."
1793,"Thus perhaps as the sensation of immediate suffering wore off, I became more human."
1794,"It was a curious fact, that at this period, when by the marriage of Perdita I was allied to one of the richest individuals in England, and was bound by the most intimate friendship to its chiefest noble, I experienced the greatest excess of poverty that I had ever known."
1795,"The more he remembered of his hideous dream the more terrified he felt, and it added to his desperation to hear Joe Mazurewicz chanting mournfully two floors below."
1796,Madame L'Espanaye had some property.
1797,"Know then that in these dominions I am monarch, and here rule with undivided empire under the title of 'King Pest the First.' ""This apartment, which you no doubt profanely suppose to be the shop of Will Wimble the undertaker a man whom we know not, and whose plebeian appellation has never before this night thwarted our royal ears this apartment, I say, is the Dais Chamber of our Palace, devoted to the councils of our kingdom, and to other sacred and lofty purposes."
1798,"I had so worked upon my imagination as really to believe that about the whole mansion and domain there hung an atmosphere peculiar to themselves and their immediate vicinity an atmosphere which had no affinity with the air of heaven, but which had reeked up from the decayed trees, and the gray wall, and the silent tarn a pestilent and mystic vapor, dull, sluggish, faintly discernible, and leaden hued."
1799,"Upon this subject, however, I shall forbear to dilate."
1800,"He was all gaiety; scraps of songs fell from his lips; every thought of his mind every object about us, gleamed under the sunshine of his mirth."
1801,"Sometimes he would take walks through shadowy tangles of unpaved musty smelling lanes where eldritch brown houses of unknown age leaned and tottered and leered mockingly through narrow, small paned windows."
1802,"The body of the man who had landed, had been buried deep in the sands; and none could tell more, than that the vessel was American built, and that several months before the Fortunatas had sailed from Philadelphia, of which no tidings were afterwards received."
1803,"Yet one minute, and I felt that the struggle would be over."
1804,"Each long hour was counted, and ""He suffers"" was the burthen of all her thoughts."
1805,"I did, however, improve my stay in Arkham by collecting some genealogical notes I had long wished to possess; very rough and hasty data, it is true, but capable of good use later on when I might have time to collate and codify them."
1806,"Messrs. Ricci, Czanek, and Silva selected the night of April th for their call."
1807,But the mummer had gone so far as to assume the type of the Red Death.
1808,"I would not disturb you at this period, when so many misfortunes weigh upon you, but a conversation that I had with my uncle previous to his departure renders some explanation necessary before we meet."
1809,The Rue d'Auseil lay across a dark river bordered by precipitous brick blear windowed warehouses and spanned by a ponderous bridge of dark stone.
1810,"My father was one of those men on whom nature had bestowed to prodigality the envied gifts of wit and imagination, and then left his bark of life to be impelled by these winds, without adding reason as the rudder, or judgment as the pilot for the voyage."
1811,"When I see this I telled Eb Holt, 'That's suthin' ta stir ye up an' make yer blood tickle' When I read in Scripter about slayin' like them Midianites was slew I kinder think things, but I ain't got no picter of it."
1812,"The really inexplicable thing was the way in which the victims ignorant people, for the ill smelling and widely shunned house could now be rented to no others would babble maledictions in French, a language they could not possibly have studied to any extent."
1813,"I remember the night I made the five concentric circles of fire on the floor, and stood in the innermost one chanting that monstrous litany the messenger from Tartary had brought."
1814,"""Scratch"" ""Now, you nigger, my teeth For a good set of these you had better go to Parmly's at once; high prices, but excellent work."
1815,His friend recognized it more promptly.
1816,"Not so with us, the remnant."
1817,Many held that no visible or perceptible effect would in any manner be produced.
1818,"Meanwhile joyful servants were proclaiming the finding of young Godfrey in a distant and unused chamber of the great edifice, telling too late that poor Michel had been killed in vain."
1819,"I screamed to Pompey for aid; but he said that I had hurt his feelings by calling him 'an ignorant old squint eye:' I yelled to Diana; but she only said 'bow wow wow,' and that I had told her 'on no account to stir from the corner.'"
1820,"I was a sad dog, it is true but then it was a part of my nature a point of my faith."
1821,"""Justine Moritz Poor, poor girl, is she the accused?"
1822,"And yet I saw them in a limitless stream flopping, hopping, croaking, bleating surging inhumanly through the spectral moonlight in a grotesque, malignant saraband of fantastic nightmare."
1823,"""You have observed, in your notes, that the most general opinion in relation to this sad affair is, and was from the first, that the girl had been the victim of a gang of blackguards."
1824,"On these latter there were no trees, nor even shrubs of any size."
1825,"Many of our visitors left us: those whose homes were far in the south, fled delightedly from our northern winter, and sought their native land, secure of plenty even after their fearful visitation."
1826,The last words of Evadne were the seal upon the warrant of my death.
1827,"North of the river there were traces of squalid life active fish packing houses in Water Street, smoking chimneys and patched roofs here and there, occasional sounds from indeterminate sources, and infrequent shambling forms in the dismal streets and unpaved lanes but I seemed to find this even more oppressive than the southerly desertion."
1828,"At such times, although I longed to destroy it with a blow, I was yet withheld from so doing, partly by a memory of my former crime, but chiefly let me confess it at once by absolute dread of the beast."
1829,"The picture was very vivid for a while, but gradually gave way to a more horrible conception; that of utter, absolute solitude in infinite, sightless, soundless space."
1830,"The sentiment of deep awe with which I habitually regarded the elevated character, the majestic wisdom, the apparent omnipresence and omnipotence of Wilson, added to a feeling of even terror, with which certain other traits in his nature and assumptions inspired me, had operated, hitherto, to impress me with an idea of my own utter weakness and helplessness, and to suggest an implicit, although bitterly reluctant submission to his arbitrary will."
1831,Immense glaciers approached the road; I heard the rumbling thunder of the falling avalanche and marked the smoke of its passage.
1832,"""Not altogether a fool,"" said G., ""but then he's a poet, which I take to be only one remove from a fool."""
1833,"Fortunately the books were written in the language, the elements of which I had acquired at the cottage; they consisted of Paradise Lost, a volume of Plutarch's Lives, and the Sorrows of Werter."
1834,My ultimate object is only the truth.
1835,"Mus go in to night, you know else there'll be the d l to pay, and ' 'And not a bit of pitch hot,' interrupted the foreman, with a deep sigh, and an emphasis on the 'bit.' 'Is it a long paragraph, Bob?' 'Shouldn't call it a wery long paragrab,' said Bob. 'Ah, well, then do the best you can with it We must get to press,' said the foreman, who was over head and ears in work; 'just stick in some other letter for o; nobody's going to read the fellow's trash anyhow.' 'Wery well,' replied Bob, 'here goes it' and off he hurried to his case, muttering as he went: 'Considdeble vell, them ere expressions, perticcler for a man as doesn't swar."
1836,"In a moment however she revived, and, with energy, almost with violence, entreated me to saddle horses, to take her away, away to London to her brother at least to save her."
1837,"The rudder was a light frame of cane covered with silk, shaped somewhat like a battle door, and was about three feet long, and at the widest, one foot."
1838,"At times, again, I was obliged to resolve all into the mere inexplicable vagaries of madness, for I beheld him gazing upon vacancy for long hours, in an attitude of the profoundest attention, as if listening to some imaginary sound."
1839,"The wind, favourable to him, blew so strongly in shore, that we were unable, as we had at first intended, to meet him on his watery road."
1840,"The thunder ceased; but the rain still continued, and the scene was enveloped in an impenetrable darkness."
1841,The pain inflicted by this disappointment was tormenting and keen.
1842,"Throwing out, therefore, a quantity of sand from a canvas bag, which, he lifted with great difficulty, he became stationary in an instant."
1843,"The next day, it appears, they raised and landed on a small island, although none is known to exist in that part of the ocean; and six of the men somehow died ashore, though Johansen is queerly reticent about this part of his story, and speaks only of their falling into a rock chasm."
1844,"Having thus appeared to ponder over the proposed question he raises his wand, and striking with it the wall above his head, two folding doors fly open, and display an appropriate answer to the question."
1845,"""You are in the wrong,"" replied the fiend; ""and instead of threatening, I am content to reason with you."
1846,"Only old Zebulon, who was not with the group, could have done justice to the situation or suggested a plausible explanation."
1847,"They filed a ponderous report at the court house in Aylesbury, and litigations concerning heirship are said to be still in progress amongst the innumerable Whateleys, decayed and undecayed, of the upper Miskatonic valley."
1848,"""She was"", he said, ""the brightest vision that ever came upon the earth: there was somthing in her frank countenance, in her voice, and in every motion of her graceful form that overpowered me, as if it were a celestial creature that deigned to mingle with me in intercourse more sweet than man had ever before enjoyed."
1849,"I afterwards learned that, knowing my father's advanced age and unfitness for so long a journey, and how wretched my sickness would make Elizabeth, he spared them this grief by concealing the extent of my disorder."
1850,"It was from these that I determined to choose a colleague, and the more I reflected the more my preference inclined toward one Arthur Munroe, a dark, lean man of about thirty five, whose education, taste, intelligence, and temperament all seemed to mark him as one not bound to conventional ideas and experiences."
1851,"""Why the fact is, we took our time, and we searched every where."
1852,"But of what followed, and of the reason I was found alone and dazed on the edge of the swamp next morning, I must insist that I know nothing save what I have told you over and over again."
1853,"Farewell, my dear, excellent Margaret."
1854,My aunt was only relieved of her anxiety concerning his fate by a letter from him dated Hamburgh.
1855,"He would often awake calling for his mother and grandfather, both in their graves a quarter of a century."
1856,"I told them of the vault, and they pointed to the unbroken plaster wall and laughed."
1857,"Oh, this was a delicious life quite void of guile I with my dove's look and fox's heart: for indeed I felt only the degradation of falsehood, and not any sacred sentiment of conscious innocence that might redeem it."
1858,"At three o'clock he took some lunch at a restaurant, noting meanwhile that the pull had either lessened or divided itself."
1859,"It was part of the Ex Queen's plan, to surround her son with princely magnificence."
1860,"""My dear father, you are mistaken; Justine is innocent."""
1861,"For myself, there was one reward I promised myself from my detested toils one consolation for my unparalleled sufferings; it was the prospect of that day when, enfranchised from my miserable slavery, I might claim Elizabeth and forget the past in my union with her."
1862,"With the declining heat of a September night, a whirlwind of storm, thunder, and hail, rattled round the house, and with ghastly harmony sung the dirge of her family."
1863,"He heartily despised himself, he was angry with Perdita, and the idea of Evadne was attended by all that was hideous and cruel."
1864,"A piece of lace was found tied so tightly around the neck as to be hidden from sight; it was completely buried in the flesh, and was fasted by a knot which lay just under the left ear."
1865,"The whippoorwills were piping wildly, and in a singularly curious irregular rhythm quite unlike that of the visible ritual."
1866,"I looked back to my restless desires and painful struggles with my fellow beings as to a troubled dream, and felt myself as much changed as if I had transmigrated into another form, whose fresh sensorium and mechanism of nerves had altered the reflection of the apparent universe in the mirror of mind."
1867,"Take me mould me to your will, possess my heart and soul to all eternity."
1868,"She neglected even her child; shutting her heart against all tenderness, she grew reserved towards me, her first and fast friend."
1869,"For a moment I could yield to the creative power of the imagination, and for a moment was soothed by the sublime fictions it presented to me."
1870,"I would not yield, but to the last gasp resolutely defended my dear ones against sorrow and pain; and if I were vanquished at last, it should not be ingloriously."
1871,"I took from my waistcoat pocket a pen knife, opened it, grasped the poor beast by the throat, and deliberately cut one of its eyes from the socket I blush, I burn, I shudder, while I pen the damnable atrocity."
1872,"Her intrigues with Russia for the furtherance of her object, excited the jealousy of the Porte, and the animosity of the Greek government."
1873,This fusion of dream and reality was too much to bear.
1874,"It was madness I believe, but I so worked myself up to this idea that I could think of nothing else."
1875,"Urged by this view, I refused, and I did right in refusing, to create a companion for the first creature."
1876,"The air is empoisoned, and each human being inhales death, even while in youth and health, their hopes are in the flower."
1877,"""Let us assume , then, as e."
1878,"Wretched devil You reproach me with your creation, come on, then, that I may extinguish the spark which I so negligently bestowed."""
1879,"In she fell victim to a mild form of insanity, and was thereafter confined to the upper part of the house; her elder maiden sister, Mercy Dexter, having moved in to take charge of the family."
1880,"He talked of death incessantly, but laughed hollowly when such things as burial or funeral arrangements were gently suggested."
1881,"The villagers did not know how much to believe from so small a boy; and though they feared that the evil pair had charmed the cats to their death, they preferred not to chide the old cotter till they met him outside his dark and repellent yard."
1882,But moment after moment elapsed.
1883,"Observing my partiality for domestic pets, she lost no opportunity of procuring those of the most agreeable kind."
1884,"It is still spectral, but its strangeness fascinates me, and I shall find mixed with my relief a queer regret when it is torn down to make way for a tawdry shop or vulgar apartment building."
1885,"Reason, logic, and normal ideas of motivation stood confounded."
1886,"For three days they climbed higher, higher, and higher toward the roof of the world; then they camped to wait for the clouding of the moon."
1887,"Aunt Martha was in the doorway, and did not scold too hard when Benijah shoved the truant in."
1888,"The slightest exhibition of art is an evidence of care and human interest."""
1889,"We tremble with the violence of the conflict within us, of the definite with the indefinite of the substance with the shadow."
1890,"Probably they traded in Arkham, knowing how little Kingsport liked their habitation, or perhaps being unable to climb down the cliff on the Kingsport side."
1891,"V. Yes; for mind, existing unincorporate, is merely God."
1892,"Rome and Ravenna are rivals for the honour of his birth, though it is certain that he received his rhetorical and philosophical training in the schools of Athens the extent of whose suppression by Theodosius a century before is grossly exaggerated by the superficial."
1893,She was for a while the sole object of his reveries; and Perdita became aware that his thoughts and time were bestowed on a subject unparticipated by her.
1894,The physical state of man would soon not yield to the beatitude of angels; disease was to be banished; labour lightened of its heaviest burden.
1895,"Men of learning suspect it little, and ignore it mostly."
1896,"Of this he had been assured by Frank Elwood, the one fellow student whose poverty forced him to room in this squalid and unpopular house."
1897,"As the weeks passed, I observed with regret that my new friend was indeed slowly but unmistakably losing ground physically, as Mrs. Herrero had suggested."
1898,Todder day he gib me slip fore de sun up and was gone de whole ob de blessed day.
1899,"Pompey, I'll thank you now for that arm."
1900,My own heart was racked by regrets and remorse.
1901,"A short conversation passed between us, but the next day he again stopped at my cottage and by degrees an intimacy grew between us."
1902,"Then, with a dazed automatism which persisted despite hopelessness, I made for the next connecting door and performed the blind motion of pushing at it in an effort to get through and granting that fastenings might be as providentially intact as in this second room bolt the hall door beyond before the lock could be turned from outside."
1903,Shall I say that the voice was deep; hollow; gelatinous; remote; unearthly; inhuman; disembodied?
1904,"""Yet such must be the impression conveyed to you by what appears to be the purport of my actions."
1905,He read avidly by himself now; but talked much less than formerly.
1906,"Finally the air grew thin, and the sky changed colour, and the climbers found it hard to breathe; but still they toiled up and up, marvelling at the strangeness of the scene and thrilling at the thought of what would happen on the summit when the moon was out and the pale vapours spread around."
1907,There would have been no need of return.
1908,"Let a ""composition"" be defective; let an emendation be wrought in its mere arrangement of form; let this emendation be submitted to every artist in the world; by each will its necessity be admitted."
1909,"The fact is that although Bob was but twelve years old and four feet high, he was equal to any amount of fight, in a small way."
1910,"But, apart from decomposition, there may be, and very usually is, a generation of gas within the stomach, from the acetous fermentation of vegetable matter or within other cavities from other causes sufficient to induce a distension which will bring the body to the surface."
1911,"Of course, the 'forty one degrees and thirteen minutes' could allude to nothing but elevation above the visible horizon, since the horizontal direction was clearly indicated by the words, 'northeast and by north.'"
1912,Saw one of them picked up by a large ship seemingly one of the New York line packets.
1913,"Presently he fell upon his knees in the pit, and, burying his naked arms up to the elbows in gold, let them there remain, as if enjoying the luxury of a bath."
1914,"So taking the solitary acetylene lamp into the adjacent laboratory, we left our silent guest on the slab in the dark, and bent every energy to the mixing of a new solution; the weighing and measuring supervised by West with an almost fanatical care."
1915,"For the first time in my life I envied the sleep of the dead, and thought with pleasure of one's bed under the sod, where grief and fear have no power."
1916,At last came that which I had long feared.
1917,"But before his resolution was put to the test, the unexpected intervened."
1918,"Havelius writes that he has several times found, in skies perfectly clear, when even stars of the sixth and seventh magnitude were conspicuous, that, at the same altitude of the moon, at the same elongation from the earth, and with one and the same excellent telescope, the moon and its maculae did not appear equally lucid at all times."
1919,He had fired it among a crowd of women and children.
1920,"After much suffering she died, or was supposed to die."
1921,She had found it in the young gentleman's bed on the side next the wall.
1922,"Yet, mad am I not and very surely do I not dream."
1923,What was it that had enmeshed him?
1924,I presently recognised it as that of Usher.
1925,I was required to exchange chimeras of boundless grandeur for realities of little worth.
1926,"Many things had taught them secretiveness, and there was now no need to exert pressure on them."
1927,"We had excavated the entire circle of four feet diameter, and now we slightly enlarged the limit, and went to the farther depth of two feet."
1928,"And of such passion I could form no estimate, save by the miraculous expansion of those eyes which at once so delighted and appalled me by the almost magical melody, modulation, distinctness and placidity of her very low voice and by the fierce energy rendered doubly effective by contrast with her manner of utterance of the wild words which she habitually uttered."
1929,"Though the hands of its clock were missing on the side I glimpsed, I knew that those hoarse strokes were telling the hour of eleven."
1930,But the boat would he have secured it?
1931,Had there been any traces of recent disturbance we should not have failed to detect it instantly.
1932,"My design, so far, has no reference to the facts of the case."
1933,"So that when we make our hearts a lair for that gently seeming beast, its companion enters with it, and pitilessly lays waste what might have been an home and a shelter."""
1934,"Leaving this door open to its full extent, he goes now round to the back of the box, and raising the drapery of the figure, opens another door situated precisely in the rear of the one first opened."
1935,Now I was led to examine the cause and progress of this decay and forced to spend days and nights in vaults and charnel houses.
1936,He was detained by urgent business but would shortly return.
1937,It had no peculiar it had no settled predominant expression to be fastened upon the memory; a countenance seen and instantly forgotten but forgotten with a vague and never ceasing desire of recalling it to mind.
1938,This idea was torture to him.
1939,"He desires less the fresh air and the green trees, than the utter license of the country."
1940,"If you will comply with my conditions, I will leave them and you at peace; but if you refuse, I will glut the maw of death, until it be satiated with the blood of your remaining friends."""
1941,"All of these, however, bore out the notes in full."
1942,The savans now maintained the Aristotelian and Baconian roads were the sole possible avenues to knowledge.
1943,Professor Upham especially liked his demonstration of the kinship of higher mathematics to certain phases of magical lore transmitted down the ages from an ineffable antiquity human or pre human whose knowledge of the cosmos and its laws was greater than ours.
1944,"The fact is, we are all right, and thus three Sundays have come together in a week."""
1945,"Our numbers were to move forward in separate parties, and to go by different routes, all to unite at last at Paris."
1946,"Raymond, the deliverer of Greece, the graceful soldier, who bore in his mien a tinge of all that, peculiar to her native clime, Evadne cherished as most dear Raymond was loved by Evadne."
1947,The Ourang Outang may have escaped from him.
1948,"Do you see any change in the water?"""
1949,"Like and yet unlike, for there was in the eyes of all a weird, unhealthy glitter as of greed, ambition, vindictiveness, or misguided zeal."
1950,And now my wanderings began which are to cease but with life.
1951,"As I perused this I felt myself growing gradually smaller and smaller, and when I came to the point at which the editor sneered at the poem as ""verses"" there was little more than an ounce of me left."
1952,"""I shall perish,"" said he, ""I must perish in this deplorable folly."
1953,"Besides, there is Luchesi "" ""Enough,"" he said; ""the cough is a mere nothing; it will not kill me."
1954,To seek to describe it were useless for it was such that no description is possible.
1955,"While the objects around me while the carvings of the ceilings, the sombre tapestries of the walls, the ebon blackness of the floors, and the phantasmagoric armorial trophies which rattled as I strode, were but matters to which, or to such as which, I had been accustomed from my infancy while I hesitated not to acknowledge how familiar was all this I still wondered to find how unfamiliar were the fancies which ordinary images were stirring up."
1956,"""Everybody was in a bad way them days."
1957,"Here the strangers had been granted a haven; and the swarthy Etienne Roulet, less apt at agriculture than at reading queer books and drawing queer diagrams, was given a clerical post in the warehouse at Pardon Tillinghast's wharf, far south in Town Street."
1958,"""I now scrutinized the death's head with care."
1959,"If my last combat is now about to be fought, and I am to be worsted so let it be"" ""But come, Ryland, recollect yourself Men have hitherto thought you magnanimous and wise, will you cast aside these titles?"
1960,He accosted me with trepidation and passed on.
1961,"""But, Talbot,"" I continued, pulling him by the shoulder, ""listen to me will you?"
1962,I was oppressed by fatigue and hunger and far too unhappy to enjoy the gentle breezes of evening or the prospect of the sun setting behind the stupendous mountains of Jura.
1963,"Had the lover been interrupted in his first villany by the necessity of departure to sea, and had he seized the first moment of his return to renew the base designs not yet altogether accomplished or not yet altogether accomplished by him?"
1964,"It is now rather more than seven months since I received, from M. Valdemar himself, the subjoined note: My DEAR P , You may as well come now."
1965,But still these shadows of my dream deride me.
1966,"They shall go down together to the bars of the pit, when our rest together is in the dust Yes my hope was corruption and dust and all to which death brings us."
1967,Thou and nature are still true to me.
1968,There is no argument which so touches the feeble reason of the madman as the argumentum ad absurdum.
1969,At length the rooms began to thin.
1970,"Sometimes the patient lies, for a day only, or even for a shorter period, in a species of exaggerated lethargy."
1971,One September day an unexpected glimpse of him induced an epileptic fit in a man who had come to repair his electric desk lamp; a fit for which he prescribed effectively whilst keeping himself well out of sight.
1972,In an instant I seemed to rise from the ground.
1973,"This matter having been properly accomplished, and the Furies appeased, I grew at once into high favor with Mr. Crab."
1974,He had lately made a voyage to the Indian Archipelago.
1975,So without delay West had injected into the body's wrist the compound which would hold it fresh for use after my arrival.
1976,"This was a delicate point for a woman to urge, especially so; in mentioning it, she saw that she must make a sacrifice of her feelings; still, for me, every sacrifice should be made."
1977,"At length we arrived at a large, desert, dark cavern, which the Lazzeroni assured us was the Sibyl's Cave."
1978,Why do you call me Eiros?
1979,"He would turn round upon one heel by the hour, in this manner so "" Here the friend whom he had just interrupted by a whisper, performed an exactly similar office for himself."
1980,"Everybody shrieked when a large rat like form suddenly jumped out from beneath the ensanguined bedclothes and scuttled across the floor to a fresh, open hole close by."
1981,Madame Lalande had not overrated the musical abilities of her friends; and the singing I here heard I had never heard excelled in any private circle out of Vienna.
1982,"Well, so great was the admiration excited by this latter system that, at its first introduction, Aries Tottle fell into disrepute; but finally he recovered ground and was permitted to divide the realm of Truth with his more modern rival."
1983,"A novice in the game generally seeks to embarrass his opponents by giving them the most minutely lettered names; but the adept selects such words as stretch, in large characters, from one end of the chart to the other."
1984,"Readiness of talent, a capacity of entering into, and leading the dispositions of men; earnest desire of distinction were the awakeners and nurses of his ambition."
1985,It is perhaps worth mentioning that I was not at all surprised or terrified on learning of the nature of the vault.
1986,"What do you mean?"" ""Nothing, sir; only Mr. Talbot is not in, that's all."
1987,Then he saw the old woman and the small furry thing advancing toward him over the carpeted floor.
1988,"There was a suggestion of sound, too, though the wind was blowing the other way a suggestion of bestial scraping and bellowing even worse than the muttering of the parties I had lately overheard."
1989,"Expectation, and hopes, and affection were all too much for me."
1990,"With such schooling did my poor Idris try to hush thronging fears, and in some measure succeeded."
1991,"I continued the story: ""But the good champion Ethelred, now entering within the door, was sore enraged and amazed to perceive no signal of the maliceful hermit; but, in the stead thereof, a dragon of a scaly and prodigious demeanor, and of a fiery tongue, which sate in guard before a palace of gold, with a floor of silver; and upon the wall there hung a shield of shining brass with this legend enwritten Who entereth herein, a conqueror hath bin; Who slayeth the dragon, the shield he shall win; And Ethelred uplifted his mace, and struck upon the head of the dragon, which fell before him, and gave up his pesty breath, with a shriek so horrid and harsh, and withal so piercing, that Ethelred had fain to close his ears with his hands against the dreadful noise of it, the like whereof was never before heard."""
1992,"So far, I had not ventured to stir any of my limbs but now I violently threw up my arms, which had been lying at length, with the wrists crossed."
1993,"""But here,"" said I ""here"" and I dragged spitefully from its receptacle a gaunt, tall and peculiar looking form, whose remarkable appearance struck me with a sense of unwelcome familiarity ""here is a wretch entitled to no earthly commiseration."""
1994,"I, a German, should be the first to tread those aeon forgotten ways I produced and examined a deep sea diving suit of joined metal, and experimented with the portable light and air regenerator."
1995,I do not address them to you alone because it will give me pleasure to dwell upon our friendship in a way that would be needless if you alone read what I shall write.
1996,"In those five pre eminent letters what a world of bitterness is there not involved But ""Oppodeldoc"" was punished with equal severity in the ""Rowdy Dow,"" which spoke thus: ""We have received a most singular and insolent communication from a person whoever he is, signing himself 'Oppodeldoc' thus desecrating the greatness of the illustrious Roman Emperor so named."
1997,"For the cat is cryptic, and close to strange things which men cannot see."
1998,"Satisfied with having produced in my bosom the intended effect, he seemed to chuckle in secret over the sting he had inflicted, and was characteristically disregardful of the public applause which the success of his witty endeavours might have so easily elicited."
1999,"While he spoke thus, I commenced the passes which I had already found most effectual in subduing him."
2000,"It was subsequently caught by the owner himself, who obtained for it a very large sum at the Jardin des Plantes."
2001,"The far corners were all shadows, and the whole place took on a hazy unreality which obscured its nature and invited the imagination to symbolism and phantasm."
2002,"He was, in fine, made sensible that all the world is but the smoke of our intellects; past the bidding of the vulgar, but by the wise to be puffed out and drawn in like any cloud of prime Virginia tobacco."
2003,"Live stock diminished sensibly in the country, from the effects of the great demand in the market."
2004,"For the sake of experiment I had put the cat and kittens in a small basket, and suspended it outside the car to a button at the bottom, close by the valve, through which I could feed them at any moment when necessary."
2005,At length I gathered resolution to address him in a pause of the tempest of his passion.
2006,"I bent my steps immediately to the mountains, and, about ten, entered a gorge which was entirely new to me."
2007,"At the first attempt to induce the magnetic somnolency, the mesmerist entirely failed."
2008,"The moon had reached her summit in the heavens and was beginning to descend; the clouds swept across it swifter than the flight of the vulture and dimmed her rays, while the lake reflected the scene of the busy heavens, rendered still busier by the restless waves that were beginning to rise."
2009,"How in poor assemblage of words convey the halo of glory that surrounded her, the thousand graces that waited unwearied on her."
2010,"You may easily imagine that I was much gratified by the offered communication, yet I could not endure that he should renew his grief by a recital of his misfortunes."
2011,"She started wildly from her couch, and flew to the cabin window."
2012,"I believe it was that coming out with a determination not to be repulsed I went right forward to my object without well weighing his replies: I was led by passion and drew him with frantic heedlessness into the abyss that he so fearfully avoided I replied to his terrific words: ""You fill me with affright it is true, dearest father, but you only confirm my resolution to put an end to this state of doubt."
2013,I was not sorry to see the head which had occasioned me so much embarrassment at length make a final separation from my body.
2014,"As I fell, the ship hove in stays, and went about; and to the confusion ensuing I attributed my escape from the notice of the crew."
2015,I pulled back at once but it was too late.
2016,"""And then there was an ignoramus,"" said he, ""who mistook himself for a frog, which, by the way, he resembled in no little degree."
2017,"I grew impatient, I wept; sic and wrung my hands but still I could not discover my path."
2018,The individual calamity was as you say entirely unanticipated; but analogous misfortunes had been long a subject of discussion with astronomers.
2019,"Ironic humour dragged down all the twilight minarets he reared, and the earthy fear of improbability blasted all the delicate and amazing flowers in his faery gardens."
2020,"She had read no novels and associated only with her younger sisters, what could she know of the difference between love and friendship?"
2021,Do you know that prayers were actually offered up in the ancient temples to the end that these evils might not be visited upon mankind?
2022,"There is no fruition in their vacant kindness, and sharp rocks lurk beneath the smiling ripples of these shallow waters."
2023,"West and I were doing post graduate work in summer classes at the medical school of Miskatonic University, and my friend had attained a wide notoriety because of his experiments leading toward the revivification of the dead."
2024,"He played a sweet mournful air which I perceived drew tears from the eyes of his amiable companion, of which the old man took no notice, until she sobbed audibly; he then pronounced a few sounds, and the fair creature, leaving her work, knelt at his feet."
2025,"I confess, however, that I should like very well to know the precise character of his thoughts, when, being defied by her whom the Prefect terms 'a certain personage' he is reduced to opening the letter which I left for him in the card rack."""
2026,"We were about to return homewards, when a voice, a human voice, strange now to hear, attracted our attention."
2027,"My name, indeed, has been so long and so constantly before the public eye, that I am not only willing to admit the naturalness of the interest which it has everywhere excited, but ready to satisfy the extreme curiosity which it has inspired."
2028,All efforts proved in vain.
2029,We neither insert nor purchase any stuff of the sort.
2030,"Honest, wholesome structures do not stare at travellers so slyly and hauntingly, and in my genealogical researches I had encountered legends of a century before which biassed me against places of this kind."
2031,Their tickings came sonorously to my ears.
2032,"A few men came to aid him; their numbers increased; under their united blows the obstacle was vanquished, gate, portcullis, and fence were demolished; and the wide sun lit way, leading to the heart of the city, now lay open before them."
2033,The back of the hand is upwards.
2034,"As the rules of order and pressure of laws were lost, some began with hesitation and wonder to transgress the accustomed uses of society."
2035,"very glad to see ye, indeed"" here interrupted the General himself, seizing my companion by the hand as he drew near, and bowing stiffly, but profoundly, as I was presented."
2036,"We passed rapidly along; the sun was hot, but we were sheltered from its rays by a kind of canopy while we enjoyed the beauty of the scene, sometimes on one side of the lake, where we saw Mont Saleve, the pleasant banks of Montalegre, and at a distance, surmounting all, the beautiful Mont Blanc and the assemblage of snowy mountains that in vain endeavour to emulate her; sometimes coasting the opposite banks, we saw the mighty Jura opposing its dark side to the ambition that would quit its native country, and an almost insurmountable barrier to the invader who should wish to enslave it."
2037,My dream recurred to my thoughts; I was not usually superstitious but in wretchedness every one is so.
2038,"The aspect of the country had so far changed, that it had been impossible to enter on the task of sowing seed, and other autumnal labours."
2039,"My eyes, however, never turned away from the horrible opening at the base of the chimney; and I began to get glimpses of the crumbling bricks and unhealthy weeds as faint glows of lightning penetrated the woods outside and illumined the chinks in the upper wall."
2040,"Spades were hurriedly procured, and the grave, which was shamefully shallow, was in a few minutes so far thrown open that the head of its occupant appeared."
2041,"Talk of the Ionic and Eleatic schools of Archytas, Gorgias, and Alcmaeon."
2042,"After incredible labor we succeeded, at length, in getting the longboat over the side without material accident, and into this we crowded the whole of the crew and most of the passengers."
2043,"Far into the night they discussed, and the next day was a whirlwind of preparation on the part of them all."
2044,"Si je gagne, je reviendrai a mes ortolans que les cartes soient préparées"" His Grace was all care, all attention his Majesty all confidence."
2045,"At the time, indeed, my attention was distracted from this matter by another phenomenon; a phenomenon so fleeting that I could not take oath upon its reality."
2046,"The hues of life flushed up with unwonted energy into the countenance the limbs relaxed and, save that the eyelids were yet pressed heavily together, and that the bandages and draperies of the grave still imparted their charnel character to the figure, I might have dreamed that Rowena had indeed shaken off, utterly, the fetters of Death."
2047,Young gentlemen piously inclined will be preferred.
2048,"I climbed gentle hills from whose summits I could see entrancing panoramas of loveliness, with steepled towns nestling in verdant valleys, and with the golden domes of gigantic cities glittering on the infinitely distant horizon."
2049,"Then came the tale of hair breadth escapes, combats with dogs, ambush and flight, as gipsey like we encompassed our pot."
2050,"I cannot live the object of suspicion you cannot believe me let us part"" ""Exactly so,"" cried Perdita, ""I knew that it would come to this Are we not already parted?"
2051,"He wished to repay the kindness of the Athenians, to keep alive the splendid associations connected with his name, and to eradicate from Europe a power which, while every other nation advanced in civilization, stood still, a monument of antique barbarism."
2052,"To the west end of this structure was attached one about a third smaller in all its proportions: the line of its front standing back about two yards from that of the larger house, and the line of its roof, of course, being considerably depressed below that of the roof adjoining."
2053,You may see him his hair stuck with wild flowers his eyes full of untraceable meaning his voice broken his person wasted to a shadow.
2054,"Yet I am not more sure that my soul lives, than I am that perverseness is one of the primitive impulses of the human heart one of the indivisible primary faculties, or sentiments, which give direction to the character of Man."
2055,"During the first months of his Protectorate, Raymond and she had been inseparable; each project was discussed with her, each plan approved by her."
2056,He asked me several questions concerning my progress in the different branches of science appertaining to natural philosophy.
2057,"In this manner a little corn and gravel were made to perform wonders."""
2058,"And on the thirty first day that we followed the bird, we beheld the basalt pillars of the West."
2059,"The marsh still glittered beyond, but in the farther distance I saw the steeples of what was then all of New York; Trinity and St. Paul's and the Brick Church dominating their sisters, and a faint haze of wood smoke hovering over the whole."
2060,And that last hour speak of it.
2061,"""Come,"" said Raymond, ""I yielded to you yesterday, now comply with my request take the pencil."""
2062,"""Smith?"" said he, in his well known peculiar way of drawling out his syllables; ""Smith?"
2063,I say all this will be seen.
2064,Her guardian was not displeased with their mutual affection: the merit of Woodville was too eminent to admit of cavil on account of his inferior wealth; but the dying will of her father did not allow her to marry before she was of age and her fortune depended upon her obeying this injunction.
2065,From this date a marked alteration took place in the outward demeanor of the dissolute young Baron Frederick Von Metzengerstein.
2066,"This to be sure was a very silly explosion of hereditary pique; and merely proved how singularly unmeaning our sayings are apt to become, when we desire to be unusually energetic."
2067,The very danger drew them closer.
2068,You say to me that there is nothing in the swamp or near it which could form the setting of that frightful episode.
2069,"The light was not white but violet, and seemed less like true light than like some radio active bombardment."
2070,"Then there came a subdued sort of clatter which somehow set me all in gooseflesh a furtive, groping kind of clatter, though I can't attempt to convey what I mean in words."
2071,"The myrtle bushes, the thyme, the little cyclamen, which peep from the fissures of the rock, all the produce of the place, bear affinity to him; the light that invests the hills participates in his essence, and sky and mountains, sea and valley, are imbued by the presence of his spirit."
2072,"""She most of all,"" said Ernest, ""requires consolation; she accused herself of having caused the death of my brother, and that made her very wretched."
2073,"""Oh no to morrow's Sunday."""
2074,"He was not at the palace; and, though the attendants did not know whither he had gone, they did not expect him till late at night."
2075,"Ever after this, I thought, I would live in the most dreary seclusion."
2076,"Our captain said that if the material of the bag had been the trumpery varnished ""silk"" of five hundred or a thousand years ago, we should inevitably have been damaged."
2077,"At last I could feel a real shiver run through Manton, who had moved very near."
2078,"My programme, I decided, would be to thread the principal streets, talk with any non natives I might encounter, and catch the eight o'clock coach for Arkham."
2079,"Besides, is it not a shame, that the genius of Adrian should fade from the earth like a flower in an untrod mountain path, fruitless?"
2080,"Always an ice cold intellectual machine; slight, blond, blue eyed, and spectacled; I think he secretly sneered at my occasional martial enthusiasms and censures of supine neutrality."
2081,"The galvanic battery was applied, and he suddenly expired in one of those ecstatic paroxysms which, occasionally, it superinduces."
2082,"""I do know you better,"" I replied ""than to think that you would be happy in such a situation; but the good you would do to others may be an inducement, since the time is probably arrived when you can put your theories into practice, and you may bring about such reformation and change, as will conduce to that perfect system of government which you delight to portray."""
2083,Finally I hit upon what I considered a far better expedient than either of these.
2084,"In the beginning only, he created."
2085,"To be less abstract Let us suppose a game of draughts where the pieces are reduced to four kings, and where, of course, no oversight is to be expected."
2086,"Her large dark eyes fell instantly, and a deep blush mantled her cheek."
2087,"Brown Jenkin, tough of sinew and with four tiny hands of daemoniac dexterity, had been busy while the witch was throttling him, and his efforts had been in vain."
2088,"I will live and die here ""Go you to England, Lionel; return to sweet Idris and dearest Adrian; return, and let my orphan girl be as a child of your own in your house."
2089,"When his children had departed, he took up his guitar and played several mournful but sweet airs, more sweet and mournful than I had ever heard him play before."
2090,In this fearless explorer had been placed in a madhouse at Huntingdon.
2091,What it said of myself was.
2092,"Many saw, seated above his vice regal throne, a supreme Providence, who directed his shafts, and guided his progress, and they bowed their heads in resignation, or at least in obedience."
2093,"But the villagers did not discuss such things with the old man and his wife; because of the habitual expression on the withered faces of the two, and because their cottage was so small and so darkly hidden under spreading oaks at the back of a neglected yard."
2094,"My cheek had grown pale with study, and my person had become emaciated with confinement."
2095,"'Why, sir, there beant an o in the office, neither a big un nor a little un' 'What what the d l has become of all that were in the case?' 'I don't know, sir,' said the boy, 'but one of them ere ""G'zette"" devils is bin prowling 'bout here all night, and I spect he's gone and cabbaged 'em every one.'"
2096,"Xh, nx, nx sx gx hxme at xnce, nxw, Jxhn, tx yxur xdixus xld wxxds xf Cxncxrd Gx hxme tx yxur wxxds, xld xwl, gx Yxu wxn't?"
2097,"Nevertheless, in this mansion of gloom I now proposed to myself a sojourn of some weeks."
2098,The appearance of the plain was changed during this short interval; the encampment was broken up; the relics of the disbanded army met in small companies here and there; each face was clouded; every gesture spoke astonishment and dismay.
2099,"It weighed, altogether, eight pounds six ounces."
2100,But the case is widely different with the Chess Player.
2101,"As I stood pondering with my hand on the now useless switch I heard a muffled creaking on the floor below, and thought I could barely distinguish voices in conversation."
2102,"I left the Misses Cognoscenti immediately, went behind the scenes forthwith, and gave the beggarly scoundrel such a thrashing as I trust he will remember to the day of his death."
2103,"""Oh, thet Afriky book?"
2104,"Here I hold communion only with the has been, and to come."
2105,"""Nothing farther of importance was elicited, although several other persons were examined."
2106,Yet the question of its modus operandi is still undetermined.
2107,"Seize him and unmask him that we may know whom we have to hang at sunrise, from the battlements"" It was in the eastern or blue chamber in which stood the Prince Prospero as he uttered these words."
2108,"Huge stones and beams falling momently from the decaying roofs above them, gave evidence, by their sullen and heavy descent, of the vast height of the surrounding houses; and while actual exertion became necessary to force a passage through frequent heaps of rubbish, it was by no means seldom that the hand fell upon a skeleton or rested upon a more fleshly corpse."
2109,There it still stood on the night I dug in Jan Martense's grave.
2110,In the evening Barry dined with me and announced that he would begin the drainage in two days.
2111,"His head of hair would have done honor to a Brutus; nothing could be more richly flowing, or possess a brighter gloss."
2112,"We have passed over some twenty or thirty vessels of various kinds, and all seem to be delightfully astonished."
2113,"Justine, whom I loved and esteemed as my sister, how could she put on those smiles of innocence only to betray?"
2114,"He spoke with a broken voice, then bowed his head, and, hiding his face in his hands, wept."
2115,IT was a chilly November afternoon.
2116,"Saw Snap at the Exchange, and went up and trod on his toe."
2117,"He recognised the hand writing of Evadne, and the colour mounted in his cheeks."
2118,"I was already well acquainted with what I may term the panorama of nature, the change of seasons, and the various appearances of heaven and earth."
2119,"You know me I'm a man of my word now be off"" Here he swallowed his bumper of port, while I rushed from the room in despair."
2120,"Besides all this, there was suspended from the roof of the tomb, a large bell, the rope of which, it was designed, should extend through a hole in the coffin, and so be fastened to one of the hands of the corpse."
2121,"As he listened he thought a rhythmic confusion of faint musical pipings covering a wide tonal range welled up from the narrow streets beneath, and he wished he might discern the denizens of the place."
2122,"His feet were indistinguishable because of the table and bench, but he must have been shod, since there was a clicking whenever he changed position."
2123,"How ill you are What is the cause of all this?"" ""Do not ask me,"" cried I, putting my hands before my eyes, for I thought I saw the dreaded spectre glide into the room; ""HE can tell."
2124,"But the fresh air and bright sun seldom failed to restore me to some degree of composure, and on my return I met the salutations of my friends with a readier smile and a more cheerful heart."
2125,"Alas I am a most unhappy creature"" I was breathless with emotion, and I paused fixing my earnest eyes on my father, after I had dashed away the intrusive tears that dimmed them."
2126,"But, of late days, I had given myself up entirely to wine; and its maddening influence upon my hereditary temper rendered me more and more impatient of control."
2127,She was lovely; her manners were frank and simple; her deep blue eyes swam in a lustre which could only be given by sensibility joined to wisdom.
2128,"""I have said that the scrap was parchment, and not paper."
2129,"All this, to the pious Miss Tilton, formed an excellent reason for shunning the ancient town of decay and desolation; but to me it was merely a fresh incentive."
2130,"Just as the building was wiped out by a German shell, there had been a success."
2131,Believed that Madame L. told fortunes for a living.
2132,"I could not, however, perceive any one at all."
2133,"She herself wept as Elizabeth spoke, but she did not answer."
2134,"Now and then, the malady of some individual growing to a crisis, or taking a sudden turn of fury, we conveyed him to a secret cell, lest his disorder should infect the rest, and there kept him until we could dismiss him to his friends for with the raging maniac we have nothing to do."
2135,"Then the dandy swore very much, and looked about for a boot black."
2136,"""While I listened in an extremity of astonishment which I need not attempt to describe, a strong and brief gust of wind bore off the incumbent fog as if by the wand of an enchanter."
2137,"There was no external door to the north wing, and it also had only one window to the east."
2138,"The woodwork, throughout, is of a dark hue and there is much carving about it, with but a trifling variety of pattern for, time out of mind, the carvers of Vondervotteimittiss have never been able to carve more than two objects a time piece and a cabbage."
2139,"In the mean time, while I thus pampered myself with rich mental repasts, a peasant would have disdained my scanty fare, which I sometimes robbed from the squirrels of the forest."
2140,"And it was by moonlight that we anchored at last in the harbour of Sona Nyl, which is guarded by twin headlands of crystal that rise from the sea and meet in a resplendent arch."
2141,"""Ha ha ha ha ha ha"" laughed the proprietor, motioning me to a seat as I entered the room, and throwing himself back at full length upon an ottoman."
2142,"We visited the north of England, my native Ulswater, and lingered in scenes dear from a thousand associations."
2143,"On the floor were confused muddy prints, but oddly enough they did not extend all the way to the door."
2144,"Alone I mounted the tower, for every man of stout body was needed in the passes below."
2145,"But as leaving time obviously approached I conquered my qualms and followed the man aboard, extending him a dollar bill and murmuring the single word ""Innsmouth""."
2146,"See here"" pulling down some three or four ordinary looking volumes, and opening them at random."
2147,"It was necessary that I should return without delay to Geneva, there to watch over the lives of those I so fondly loved and to lie in wait for the murderer, that if any chance led me to the place of his concealment, or if he dared again to blast me by his presence, I might, with unfailing aim, put an end to the existence of the monstrous image which I had endued with the mockery of a soul still more monstrous."
2148,"There was no help for it; so smothering my vexation as well as I could, I strolled moodily up the street, propounding futile inquiries about Madame Lalande to every male acquaintance I met."
2149,"""You have learnt a pretty lesson, Perdita,"" said I, ""and repeat it so literally, that you forget the while the proofs we have of the Earl's virtues; his generosity to us is manifest in our plenty, his bravery in the protection he affords us, his affability in the notice he takes of us."
2150,"He is of a well knit and compact frame of body, neither robust nor remarkably otherwise."
2151,"Seized with a gloomy and fanatical belief which exiled them from their kind, their ancestors sought the wilderness for freedom."
2152,I suppose it was despair that strung my nerves.
2153,I slept too undisturbed by dreams; and awoke refreshed to again enjoy my tranquil freedom.
2154,"In his dream delirium Gilman heard the hellish, alien rhythmed chant of the Sabbat coming from an infinite distance, and knew the black man must be there."
2155,"This consideration served to calm the perturbation of my mind, and I finally succeeded in regarding the phenomenon in its proper point of view."
2156,"And now, amid all my infinite miseries, came sweetly the cherub Hope for I thought of my precautions."
2157,"We are thus narrowed into t ee, and, going through the alphabet, if necessary, as before, we arrive at the word 'tree,' as the sole possible reading."
2158,"M. Krempe was not equally docile; and in my condition at that time, of almost insupportable sensitiveness, his harsh blunt encomiums gave me even more pain than the benevolent approbation of M. Waldman."
2159,"A struggle, a needle, and a powerful alkaloid had transformed it to a very fresh corpse, and the experiment had succeeded for a brief and memorable moment; but West had emerged with a soul calloused and seared, and a hardened eye which sometimes glanced with a kind of hideous and calculating appraisal at men of especially sensitive brain and especially vigorous physique."
2160,By day and night these thoughts pursued me.
2161,"I dared hardly consider you as my daughter; your beauty, artlessness and untaught wisdom seemed to belong to a higher order of beings; your voice breathed forth only words of love: if there was aught of earthly in you it was only what you derived from the beauty of the world; you seemed to have gained a grace from the mountain breezes the waterfalls and the lake; and this was all of earthly except your affections that you had; there was no dross, no bad feeling in the composition."
2162,"The building was full of a frightful stench which Dr. Armitage knew too well, and the three men rushed across the hall to the small genealogical reading room whence the low whining came."
2163,"But Alfred Trever did not speak the truth, as many guessed when he offered to take charge of the body and secure its interment in Appleton."
2164,"Before I had protested at his unnatural pryings into the unthinkable; now that he had evidently succeeded to some degree I almost shared his spirit, terrible though the cost of victory appeared."
2165,Very well; but I ask him why.
2166,"He now refused to admit me at any time, and shunned me whenever we met on the stairs."
2167,"I felt as the sailor, who from the topmast first discovered the shore of America; and like him I hastened to tell my companions of my discoveries in unknown regions."
2168,"Raymond felt no relief, received no pleasure from any show of heaven or earth."
2169,"This was a strange tale, but it did not shake my faith; and I replied earnestly, ""You are all mistaken; I know the murderer."
2170,"A whirlwind had apparently collected its force in our vicinity; for there were frequent and violent alterations in the direction of the wind; and the exceeding density of the clouds which hung so low as to press upon the turrets of the house did not prevent our perceiving the life like velocity with which they flew careering from all points against each other, without passing away into the distance."
2171,The advertiser designates me as the possessor of the beast.
2172,"Here we were comparatively calm, despite a somewhat puzzling southward current which we could not identify from our oceanographic charts."
2173,I can see him now as he was then and I shiver.
2174,"From beyond came a glow that weirdly lit the giant twisted trees and the tops of the buried temples, and I drifted on songfully, expectant of the glories of the land from whence I should never return."
2175,"To purchasing bran new paper shirt collar or dickey, to set off gray Petersham..................................... AUG. ."
2176,"I now began to watch, with a strange interest, the numerous things that floated in our company."
2177,"The bar was now four inches and a half deep in my neck, and there was only a little bit of skin to cut through."
2178,"A very thin sprinkling of repellent looking youngish people now became visible on the sidewalks lone individuals, and silent knots of two or three."
2179,"If I am in error, he will merely suppose that I have been misled by some circumstance into which he will not take the trouble to inquire."
2180,"She was not her child, but the daughter of a Milanese nobleman."
2181,"As he bade me good bye, I bethought me that there might be some difficulty in obtaining access to the premises, and mentioned my fears on this point."
2182,"Be you witnesses,"" and he took the star, insignia of office, from his breast, and threw it on the table."
2183,"Dropping a lighted cigar on the ground, as if by accident, I took the opportunity, in stooping to pick it up, of igniting privately the piece of slow match, whose end, as I said before, protruded a very little beyond the lower rim of one of the smaller casks."
2184,At five minutes before eleven I perceived unequivocal signs of the mesmeric influence.
2185,"""But is this really the poet?"""
2186,But I might not be mad if those accursed tomb legions had not been so silent.
2187,"a couple o' weeks later, when nothin' had ben throwed into the sea fer that long. . ."
2188,"The expression of the eyes of Ligeia How for long hours have I pondered upon it How have I, through the whole of a midsummer night, struggled to fathom it What was it that something more profound than the well of Democritus which lay far within the pupils of my beloved?"
2189,"THE great problem is at length solved The air, as well as the earth and the ocean, has been subdued by science, and will become a common and convenient highway for mankind."
2190,And yet I could extract nothing definite from the man.
2191,"None of your swaggerers, and nothing at all indelicate in her motions."
2192,"This simple fact should have induced suspicion, at least, it might be thought."
2193,"Yet, when I am dead, if he should appear, if the ministers of vengeance should conduct him to you, swear that he shall not live swear that he shall not triumph over my accumulated woes and survive to add to the list of his dark crimes."
2194,Yet the character of his face had been at all times remarkable.
2195,"I left her, and soon heard that she slept soundly under the influence of the opiate I had administered."
2196,With it came the sense of elasticity and of light.
2197,We perpetrate them because we feel that we should not.
2198,"""Father,"" I asked, ""what is the chief end of my existence?"""
2199,"Even now he could detect a low, monstrous shaking whose tempo he suspected all too well."
2200,"Upon that sea the hateful moon shone, and over its unvocal waves weird perfumes brooded."
2201,"And golden flames played about weedy locks, so that Olney was dazzled as he did them homage."
2202,"""For his nose"" shouted her Grace."
2203,"It was to a time battered edifice of this description that I was driven one afternoon in November, , by a rain of such chilling copiousness that any shelter was preferable to exposure."
2204,"Them as was born more like the things changed arly, but them as was nearly human sometimes stayed on the island till they was past seventy, though they'd usually go daown under fer trial trips afore that."
2205,"For my own part, since Adrian had first withdrawn me from my selvatic wilderness to his own paradise of order and beauty, I had been wedded to literature."
2206,"At the same time that he taught me by their means to subdue my own reckless and uncultured spirit, he opened to my view the living page of his own heart, and gave me to feel and understand its wondrous character."
2207,"I was led to London, and had to endure for some weeks cold looks, cold words and colder consolations: but I escaped; they tried to bind me with fetters that they thought silken, yet which weighed on me like iron, although I broke them more easily than a girth formed of a single straw and fled to freedom."
2208,It hangs like moss upon the vaults.
2209,"I wandered on, and the coming darkness made every trace indistinct by which I might be guided."
2210,The mild exhortations of the old man and the lively conversation of the loved Felix were not for me.
2211,This account may be taken as a sample of my intercourse with Lord Raymond.
2212,"A quarrel, it is supposed, providentially led to her return home."
2213,"He dismissed his servants there, only telling them that he had a sudden call of business and that they were to obey me as their mistress untill his return."
2214,"I placed myself as desired, and he proceeded."
2215,"My father calmed me with assurances of their welfare and endeavoured, by dwelling on these subjects so interesting to my heart, to raise my desponding spirits; but he soon felt that a prison cannot be the abode of cheerfulness."
2216,And that gulf is what?
2217,"As I considered the inevitable end my mind ran over preceding events, and developed a hitherto dormant impression which would have caused a weaker and more superstitious man to shudder."
2218,"And as I looked upon the little gate in the mighty wall, I felt that beyond it lay a dream country from which, once it was entered, there would be no return."
2219,"And now, dear Margaret, do I not deserve to accomplish some great purpose?"
2220,"We had long regarded the wanderers as vapory creations of inconceivable tenuity, and as altogether incapable of doing injury to our substantial globe, even in the event of contact."
2221,"The appetite for admiration and small capacity for self controul which I inherited from my father, nursed by adversity, made me daring and reckless."
2222,"My uncle, it seems, had quickly instituted a prodigiously far flung body of inquiries amongst nearly all the friends whom he could question without impertinence, asking for nightly reports of their dreams, and the dates of any notable visions for some time past."
2223,"The interval was, consequently, spent in inaction; his grief only became more deep and rankling when he had leisure for reflection, and at length it took so fast hold of his mind that at the end of three months he lay on a bed of sickness, incapable of any exertion."
2224,"My entire worldly wealth was swallowed up, and I resigned myself thenceforward to despair."
2225,"Thus; at first, it was thought unnecessary to offer a reward."
2226,"""They shout,"" I said, ""because they will soon return to England."" ""Do you, then, really return?"" ""Alas Yes; I cannot withstand their demands."
2227,"He would rather have died such a death, which will be recorded in history to endless time, than have lived to old age unknown, unhonoured."
2228,There is my hope and my expectation; your's are in this world; may they be fulfilled.
2229,"The Deep Ones could never be destroyed, even though the palaeogean magic of the forgotten Old Ones might sometimes check them."
2230,"He did not walk or climb, fly or swim, crawl or wriggle; yet always experienced a mode of motion partly voluntary and partly involuntary."
2231,"Shame shame if the first magistrate of England be foremost to renounce his duties."""
2232,"Not tamely, however, did the tall seaman behold the discomfiture of his companion."
2233,"Having done this justice to my faithful friend, I gave myself up with great zest and enthusiasm to the enjoyment of the scene which so obligingly spread itself out before my eyes."
2234,yet I had read only the least fragment of that blasphemous rune before closing the book and bringing it away.
2235,This was all accomplished even as I wished.
2236,I would have the judicious reader pause before accusing such asseverations of an undue quantum of absurdity.
2237,"Among his other advantages, Lord Raymond was supremely handsome; every one admired him; of women he was the idol."
2238,"Sometimes, in the throes of a nightmare when unseen powers whirl one over the roofs of strange dead cities toward the grinning chasm of Nis, it is a relief and even a delight to shriek wildly and throw oneself voluntarily along with the hideous vortex of dream doom into whatever bottomless gulf may yawn."
2239,The meal was quickly dispatched.
2240,"Oh, tempora Oh, Moses' A philippic at once so caustic and so classical, alighted like a bombshell among the hitherto peaceful citizens of Nopolis."
2241,"Is nervous, and was apprehensive of the consequences of agitation."
2242,"I began to study more; to sympathize more in the thoughts of others as expressed in books; to read history, and to lose my individuallity among the crowd that had existed before me."
2243,"Apparently it was a point somewhere between Hydra and Argo Navis, and he knew that he had been urged toward it ever since he had awaked soon after dawn."
2244,"and a cloud, dense, dismal, and limitless, does it not hang eternally between thy hopes and heaven?"
2245,"Methought I had been invited to Timon's last feast; I came with keen appetite, the covers were removed, the hot water sent up its unsatisfying steams, while I fled before the anger of the host, who assumed the form of Raymond; while to my diseased fancy, the vessels hurled by him after me, were surcharged with fetid vapour, and my friend's shape, altered by a thousand distortions, expanded into a gigantic phantom, bearing on its brow the sign of pestilence."
2246,"From your lips first have I heard the voice of kindness directed towards me; I shall be forever grateful; and your present humanity assures me of success with those friends whom I am on the point of meeting.' ""'May I know the names and residence of those friends?' ""I paused."
2247,"In Greece I had learnt to love him; his very waywardness, and self abandonment to the impulses of superstition, attached me to him doubly; it might be weakness, but it was the antipodes of all that was grovelling and selfish."
2248,"Thus awaking from the long night of what seemed, but was not, nonentity, at once into the very regions of fairy land into a palace of imagination into the wild dominions of monastic thought and erudition it is not singular that I gazed around me with a startled and ardent eye that I loitered away my boyhood in books, and dissipated my youth in reverie; but it is singular that as years rolled away, and the noon of manhood found me still in the mansion of my fathers it is wonderful what stagnation there fell upon the springs of my life wonderful how total an inversion took place in the character of my commonest thought."
2249,"As it is myself who now tell you this tale as you see that I did escape and as you are already in possession of the mode in which this escape was effected, and must therefore anticipate all that I have farther to say I will bring my story quickly to conclusion."
2250,One other thing is curious.
2251,"It was now that Mr. Ainsworth made an extraordinary, but to my fancy, a by no means unreasonable or chimerical proposition, in which he was instantly seconded by Mr. Holland viz.: that we should take advantage of the strong gale which bore us on, and in place of beating back to Paris, make an attempt to reach the coast of North America."
2252,Who is king but Epiphanes?
2253,"The ""little cliff,"" upon whose edge he had so carelessly thrown himself down to rest that the weightier portion of his body hung over it, while he was only kept from falling by the tenure of his elbow on its extreme and slippery edge this ""little cliff"" arose, a sheer unobstructed precipice of black shining rock, some fifteen or sixteen hundred feet from the world of crags beneath us."
2254,"Not even the monstrosity of color was wanting; for the sunlight came out through the chasm, tinted all orange and purple; while the vivid green of the grass in the valley was reflected more or less upon all objects from the curtain of vapor that still hung overhead, as if loth to take its total departure from a scene so enchantingly beautiful."
2255,"O blessed sleep Often, when most miserable, I sank to repose, and my dreams lulled me even to rapture."
2256,"Louder and louder, wilder and wilder, mounted the shrieking and whining of that desperate viol."
2257,"Immediately before me was the Top Kapou, the gate near which Mahomet had made the breach by which he entered the city."
2258,"A weekly paper, Le Soleil, had the following comments upon this discovery comments which merely echoed the sentiment of the whole Parisian press: ""The things had all evidently been there at least three or four weeks; they were all mildewed down hard with the action of the rain and stuck together from mildew."
2259,We had remained five months in London three of joy and two of sorrow.
2260,"Not that I feel the least indebted, upon this score, to my exceedingly weak minded parents, who, beyond doubt, would have made an arrant genius of me at last, if my guardian angel had not come, in good time, to the rescue."
2261,"She seemed also conscious of a cause, to me unknown, for the gradual alienation of my regard; but she gave me no hint or token of its nature."
2262,"Fine that, and very delicate Turn it about a little, and it will do wonders."
2263,"Some few inquiries had been made, but these had been readily answered."
2264,She looked steadily on life and assumed its duties with courage and zeal.
2265,"""No? Well; the disclosure of the document to a third person, who shall be nameless, would bring in question the honor of a personage of most exalted station; and this fact gives the holder of the document an ascendancy over the illustrious personage whose honor and peace are so jeopardized."""
2266,"Having taken the fortified places at the foot of the mountains, their way now lay open to the plateau, unless every citizen could resist with the strength of ten men."
2267,"Methought its spirit whispered evil counsel, soothing me to traitorous somnolence with a damnable rhythmical promise which it repeated over and over: ""Slumber, watcher, till the spheres Six and twenty thousand years Have revolv'd, and I return To the spot where now I burn."
2268,"One might easily imagine an alien nucleus of substance or energy, formless or otherwise, kept alive by imperceptible or immaterial subtractions from the life force or bodily tissues and fluids of other and more palpably living things into which it penetrates and with whose fabric it sometimes completely merges itself."
2269,"His reasons, however, have not yet been matured into expression."
2270,"For some reason, he determined that nobody shall have any thing to do with the proceedings but himself, and he has elbowed the male relatives out of the way, according to their representations, in a very singular manner."
2271,"This may seem madness to you, yet you also have pride and resolution; do not then wonder that my pride is tameless, my resolution unalterable."""
2272,"This passion is detrimental to me, for you do not reflect that YOU are the cause of its excess."
2273,"A white flame still enveloped the building like a shroud, and, streaming far away into the quiet atmosphere, shot forth a glare of preternatural light; while a cloud of smoke settled heavily over the battlements in the distinct colossal figure of a horse."
2274,People sometimes heard the queerest kind of sounds.
2275,"The very heart and soul of Raymond and Perdita had mingled, even as two mountain brooks that join in their descent, and murmuring and sparkling flow over shining pebbles, beside starry flowers; but let one desert its primal course, or be dammed up by choaking obstruction, and the other shrinks in its altered banks."
2276,"You have only to do so and then so so so and then so so so and then so so and then ""Mon dieu Ma'm'selle Salsafette"" here cried a dozen voices at once."
2277,"The trail up and down Sentinel Hill seemed to Armitage of almost cataclysmic significance, and he looked long at the sinister altar like stone on the summit."
2278,"For the moment his recollections were hopelessly hazy, but he knew at least that he must have been sleep walking."
2279,"Each day, before dawn, we left our night's encampment, and watched the shadows as they retreated from hill and valley, and the golden splendour of the sun's approach."
2280,"I was not alone, for foolhardiness was not then mixed with that love of the grotesque and the terrible which has made my career a series of quests for strange horrors in literature and in life."
2281,"Subscriptions were made for the emigrants, and merchants bankrupt by the failure of trade."
2282,He leaned upon it heavily.
2283,"She had not even the same advantage as I in the recollection of her parents; she clung to me, her brother, as her only friend, but her alliance with me completed the distaste that her protectors felt for her; and every error was magnified by them into crimes."
2284,"And then there was 'The Diary of a Late Physician,' where the merit lay in good rant, and indifferent Greek both of them taking things with the public."
2285,"For some time, the spirit of hilarity was kept up; but, at length, Perdita receded from the piano, for Raymond had joined in the trio of ""Taci ingiusto core,"" in Don Giovanni, whose arch entreaty was softened by him into tenderness, and thrilled her heart with memories of the changed past; it was the same voice, the same tone, the self same sounds and words, which often before she had received, as the homage of love to her no longer was it that; and this concord of sound with its dissonance of expression penetrated her with regret and despair."
2286,"That functionary, however, had not failed, during his circumgyratory movements, to bestow a thought upon the important subject of securing the packet in question, which was seen, upon inspection, to have fallen into the most proper hands, being actually addressed to himself and Professor Rub a dub, in their official capacities of President and Vice President of the Rotterdam College of Astronomy."
2287,"I lay upon the grass surrounded by a darkness which not the slightest beam of light penetrated There was no sound for the deep night had laid to sleep the insects, the only creatures that lived on the lone spot where no tree or shrub could afford shelter to aught else There was a wondrous silence in the air that calmed my senses yet which enlivened my soul, my mind hurried from image to image and seemed to grasp an eternity."
2288,"It was he who wisely advised the burgesses of Ulthar when they passed their remarkable law against the slaying of cats, and who first told the young priest Atal where it is that black cats go at midnight on St. John's Eve."
2289,"In the spring after Wilbur's birth Lavinia resumed her customary rambles in the hills, bearing in her misproportioned arms the swarthy child."
2290,"The guides bring with them materials for renewing the light, but we had none our only resource was to return as we came."
2291,Even so was it with the army of Greece.
2292,"On the eve of the third day I retired early to my room; I could not sleep but paced all night about my chamber and, as you may in Scotland at midsummer, watched the crimson track of the sun as it almost skirted the northern horizon."
2293,"Klenze had gone mad and perished before reaching this sinister remnant of a past unwholesomely remote, and had advised me to go with him."
2294,I was answered through the stillness of night by a loud and fiendish laugh.
2295,"Day after day passed while we discussed our projects for the evening, and each night was occupied by debates which offered no conclusion."
2296,"But we are told that it was upon this very evening that Madame Deluc, as well as her eldest son, 'heard the screams of a female in the vicinity of the inn.'"
2297,The effect of this scene of incantation communicated a portion of its power to that which followed.
2298,"""I have not asserted that it is,"" said he; ""but, before we decide this point, I wish you to glance at the little sketch I have here traced upon this paper."
2299,"I say it seemed to resemble sobbing or sighing but, of course, it could not have been either."
2300,"For something of this nature I had indeed been prepared, no less by his letter, than by reminiscences of certain boyish traits, and by conclusions deduced from his peculiar physical conformation and temperament."
2301,"Should he ever be tempted into magnificent speculation, he then, at once, loses his distinctive features, and becomes what we term ""financier."""
2302,"The unfortunate whose first attack should be of the extreme character which is occasionally seen, would almost inevitably be consigned alive to the tomb."
2303,"""Do not answer; I know all your objections, and will reply to them in order."
2304,"To Peter Proffit, Walking Advertiser, Drs."
2305,"""How long I remained in this state it is impossible to say."
2306,"The movement of the jaws, in this effort to cry aloud, showed me that they were bound up, as is usual with the dead."
2307,I do not think that the pursuit of knowledge is an exception to this rule.
2308,"If I survive, and she be lost, I were far better dead."
2309,"Wudn't bother no strangers as might bear tales aoutside that is, withaout they got pryin'."
2310,"If she died, where could there be found on record a murderer, whose cruel act might compare with his?"
2311,There was no American money.
2312,"This functionary, however well disposed to my friend, could not altogether conceal his chagrin at the turn which affairs had taken, and was fain to indulge in a sarcasm or two, about the propriety of every person minding his own business."
2313,"I wondered for a moment what the strange affliction of this man might be, and whether his obstinate refusal of outside aid were not the result of a rather baseless eccentricity."
2314,"But business is business, and to a robber whose soul is in his profession, there is a lure and a challenge about a very old and very feeble man who has no account at the bank, and who pays for his few necessities at the village store with Spanish gold and silver minted two centuries ago."
2315,"In reply, my sister requested me to accompany her the following evening to the tomb of Raymond."
2316,"Now, the popular opinion, under certain conditions, is not to be disregarded."
2317,"He had neither the ennobling self gratulation, which constancy inspires, to console him, nor the voluptuous sense of abandonment to a forbidden, but intoxicating passion."
2318,Idris endeavoured to persuade her to remain.
2319,"He had not mentioned this before, but now he must tell about it because it meant that Keziah and her long toothed familiar were haunting the young gentleman."
2320,"The windows, too, were without curtains; the shutters, being shut, were securely fastened with iron bars, applied diagonally, after the fashion of our ordinary shop shutters."
2321,"It was especially bitter about things in general and as for the editor of 'The Gazette,' he was torn all to pieces in particular."
2322,In a very few minutes it arrived near enough to be accurately discerned.
2323,"What had she done the while, how supported his absence and neglect?"
2324,It oppressed us with a hideous novelty of emotion.
2325,"I had gazed with wonder, mixed with fear and enthusiasm."
2326,"By the by, my dear friend, do you not think it would have puzzled these ancient dogmaticians to have determined by which of their two roads it was that the most important and most sublime of all their truths was, in effect, attained?"
2327,"At length, while, stupefied and terror stricken, I stood in expectation of I knew not what hideous destruction, the car vibrated with excessive violence, and a gigantic and flaming mass of some material which I could not distinguish, came with a voice of a thousand thunders, roaring and booming by the balloon."
2328,"But it was lonely among strangers, so Barry had asked me to come."
2329,"A pair of prodigious ears, nevertheless, which it was no doubt found impossible to confine, towered away into the atmosphere of the apartment, and were occasionally pricked up in a spasm, at the sound of the drawing of a cork."
2330,"Upon turning it over, I saw my own sketch upon the reverse, just as I had made it."
2331,"The disastrous earthquake, however, of the year , so totally uprooted and overwhelmed the town for it was almost too large to be called a village that the most indefatigable of our antiquarians have never yet been able to obtain from the site any sufficient data in the shape of coins, medals or inscriptions wherewith to build up even the ghost of a theory concerning the manners, customs, c., c., c., of the aboriginal inhabitants."
2332,"You will forgive me for the moderate tax I shall make upon your imagination, and endeavor to consider, for an instant, the reflection of your person in yonder mirror as the living Mynheer Hermann himself."
2333,"Without the aid of servants, it was necessary to discharge all household duties; hands unused to such labour must knead the bread, or in the absence of flour, the statesmen or perfumed courtier must undertake the butcher's office."
2334,"In the sunshine of the morning the proxenoi led the Tyrant's messengers up the slope to the abode of the sculptor, but the night wind had done strange things."
2335,"The shrub here often attains the height of fifteen or twenty feet, and forms an almost impenetrable coppice, burthening the air with its fragrance."
2336,"It is evident that we are hurrying onwards to some exciting knowledge some never to be imparted secret, whose attainment is destruction."
2337,"Adrian perceived the change, and feared that it would be difficult to prevent them from wreaking their utmost fury on the Irish."
2338,Let us lament over and assist the children of the garden of the earth.
2339,"For several minutes, although he looked me full in the face, he said nothing."
2340,"Their only inhabitant, a little girl, was dancing, waltzing, and singing about them, followed by a large Newfoundland dog, who boisterously jumping on her, and interrupting her, made her now scold, now laugh, now throw herself on the carpet to play with him."
2341,"One case, which the note describes with emphasis, was very sad."
2342,"It was the Terrible Season of the autumn, and the wild people in the mountains were preparing for the frightful ceremonies which only rumour told of in the towns."
2343,"After an interval I arose, and as if by instinct, crawled into the room where the corpse of my beloved lay."
2344,"""My dear madam,"" said he, ""sit down."
2345,We saw no need of the impulse for the propensity.
2346,The first comer now went to a cupboard on the inner side of the room and extracted a coil of rope.
2347,Within twenty four hours the stranger had become so bright that it outshone Capella.
2348,Let us content ourselves with this supposition.
2349,"Thus strangely are our souls constructed, and by such slight ligaments are we bound to prosperity or ruin."
2350,"At first he did not take his eyes from the papers; when he raised them, he was struck by the wretchedness manifest on her altered cheek; for a moment he forgot his own acts and fears, and asked with consternation ""Dearest girl, what is the matter; what has happened?"""
2351,"To the victims of its tyranny, there was the choice of death with its direst physical agonies, or death with its most hideous moral horrors."
2352,"And here, too, is a somewhat similar thing."
2353,"We cut branches of the funereal trees and placed them over him, and on these again his sword."
2354,"His face was as yellow as saffron but no feature excepting one alone, was sufficiently marked to merit a particular description."
2355,"I felt as if he had placed carefully, one by one, in my view those instruments which were to be afterwards used in putting me to a slow and cruel death."
2356,Of this spirit philosophy takes no account.
2357,I shrunk convulsively at its every sweep.
2358,"His lynx eye immediately perceives the paper, recognises the handwriting of the address, observes the confusion of the personage addressed, and fathoms her secret."
2359,"By great application, however, and after having remained during the space of several revolutions of the moon in my hovel, I discovered the names that were given to some of the most familiar objects of discourse; I learned and applied the words, 'fire,' 'milk,' 'bread,' and 'wood.'"
2360,"The answer now was immediate, but even less audible than before: ""No pain I am dying."""
2361,She was very earnest to see the corpse.
2362,From some farmhouse far away came the frantic barking of dogs.
2363,"I turned from them in contempt, and, gazing upward at the earth so lately left, and left perhaps for ever, beheld it like a huge, dull, copper shield, about two degrees in diameter, fixed immovably in the heavens overhead, and tipped on one of its edges with a crescent border of the most brilliant gold."
2364,"He had been found covered with blood and shreds of flesh in a wood, shortly after the killing and rending of a boy by a pair of wolves."
2365,"And since by person we understand an intelligent essence having reason, and since there is a consciousness which always accompanies thinking, it is this which makes us all to be that which we call ourselves, thereby distinguishing us from other beings that think, and giving us our personal identity."
2366,The monster saw my determination in my face and gnashed his teeth in the impotence of anger.
2367,"""You explored the floors beneath the carpets?"" ""Beyond doubt."
2368,"To this state there was no hope, no alleviation, unless the grave should quickly receive its destined prey, and she be permitted to die, before she experienced a thousand living deaths in the loss of those she loved."
2369,"I tried to raise my hand to shut out the sight, yet so stunned were my nerves that my arm could not fully obey my will."
2370,"This state of things, however, did not last long enough to give us time to think about it."
2371,"And the mists of the dawn are thicker, and sailors are not quite so sure that all the muffled seaward ringing is that of the solemn buoys."
2372,Dangers he met unflinchingly; crimes he committed unmoved.
2373,"To look at a star by glances to view it in a side long way, by turning toward it the exterior portions of the retina more susceptible of feeble impressions of light than the interior, is to behold the star distinctly is to have the best appreciation of its lustre a lustre which grows dim just in proportion as we turn our vision fully upon it."
2374,"I had often heard of this work, with its curious illustrations by the brothers De Bry, hence for a moment forgot my uneasiness in my desire to turn the pages before me."
2375,"At the end of the corridor was a bathroom a discouraging relique with ancient marble bowl, tin tub, faint electric light, and musty wooden panelling around all the plumbing fixtures."
2376,"Many of them were very old, and as time keepers valueless; the works having suffered, more or less, from corrosion but all were richly jewelled and in cases of great worth."
2377,"Morning came wanly, and the night sounds ceased."
2378,"She returned to the house about eight o'clock, and when one inquired where she had passed the night, she replied that she had been looking for the child and demanded earnestly if anything had been heard concerning him."
2379,"Indeed, I had so well secured them in their places, that such an accident was entirely out of the question."
2380,"And he gazed also upon Mount Aran rising regally from the shore, its lower slopes green with swaying trees and its white summit touching the sky."
2381,"I knew that I ought to hasten my descent towards the valley, as I should soon be encompassed in darkness; but my heart was heavy, and my steps slow."
2382,"I dreaded to behold this monster, but I feared still more that Henry should see him."
2383,"""So far as his labors extended?"" said I. ""Yes,"" said Dupin."
2384,I did not like those rumours of a fight which were floating about.
2385,"Meanwhile among our guests in the park, all thoughts of festivity had faded."
2386,Had I not a right to rest till eternity amongst the descendants of Sir Geoffrey Hyde?
2387,"This aroused the stranger's attention, and he asked a multitude of questions concerning the route which the demon, as he called him, had pursued."
2388,"But to me the remembrance of the threat returned; nor can you wonder that, omnipotent as the fiend had yet been in his deeds of blood, I should almost regard him as invincible, and that when he had pronounced the words ""I SHALL BE WITH YOU ON YOUR WEDDING NIGHT,"" I should regard the threatened fate as unavoidable."
2389,"Disintegration is quite painless, I assure you but I want you to see them."
2390,"But my enthusiasm was checked by my anxiety, and I appeared rather like one doomed by slavery to toil in the mines, or any other unwholesome trade than an artist occupied by his favourite employment."
2391,"St. Eustache was the accepted suitor of Marie, and lodged, as well as took his meals, at the pension."
2392,Dupin scrutinized every thing not excepting the bodies of the victims.
2393,"A grin was on the face of the monster; he seemed to jeer, as with his fiendish finger he pointed towards the corpse of my wife."
2394,"I was not surprised, however, to perceive that he had long made up his mind upon a topic which had occasioned so much of discussion to his friends."
2395,"It will not do, however, to deny that you are in some measure implicated in them."
2396,Or so my fond fancy imaged some accident might meanwhile occur to destroy him and put an end to my slavery forever.
2397,"The rudder is also very much larger, in proportion, than that of the model; and the screw is considerably smaller."
2398,"Before Carter awaked, the gentle visitant had told him where to find that box; that carved oak box of archaic wonder whose grotesque lid no hand had raised for two centuries."
2399,"Also, Dombrowski must attend to the poisoning of those rats in the walls."
2400,"Their extreme youth, and the purity of their attachment, made them yield with less resistance to the tyranny of circumstances."
2401,"We have, for example, a metal, a piece of wood, a drop of water, the atmosphere, a gas, caloric, electricity, the luminiferous ether."
2402,Shall I then say that I longed with an earnest and consuming desire for the moment of Morella's decease?
2403,"Yours everlastingly, PUNDITA."
2404,"As the stronger party, however, we overruled their fears, and kept resolutely upon our course."
2405,"Poor fellow he lay stretched on a bed of sickness, his cheeks glowing with the hues of fever, his eyes half closed, his breath irregular and difficult."
2406,And in what words does Madame Deluc designate the period of the evening at which these screams were heard?
2407,"Still, the general appearance was certainly not that of death."
2408,"""Treason"" shouted his Majesty King Pest the First."
2409,This fact the mathematicians of our globe well knew.
2410,"Then I saw the lurid shimmering of pale light, and heard the insidious lapping of sunless waters."
2411,The peculiar marks on the back and shoulders of the victim tell of the bottom ribs of a boat.
2412,"This ancient confirmed every tale which Jermyn had heard, adding his own account of the stone city and the white apes as it had been told to him."
2413,"The antennæ are "" ""Dey aint no tin in him, Massa Will, I keep a tellin on you,"" here interrupted Jupiter; ""de bug is a goole bug, solid, ebery bit of him, inside and all, sep him wing neber feel half so hebby a bug in my life."""
2414,"And this medley of undamaged buildings, and luxurious accommodation, in trim and fresh youth, was contrasted with the lonely silence of the unpeopled streets."
2415,"Sleep seized me quickly, and I was at once haunted with dreams of the most disturbing kind."
2416,"By the grandeur of his conceptions, the graceful daring of his actions, by his wit and beauty, he won and ruled the minds of all."
2417,"He scarcely appeared half his usual height; his joints were unknit, his limbs would not support him; his face was contracted, his eye wandering; debility of purpose and dastard fear were expressed in every gesture."
2418,"His judgment, activity, and consummate bravery, justified their choice."
2419,"The placing my name that is to say, my nom de guerre in priority of station to that of the great Slyass, was a compliment as happy as I felt it to be deserved."
2420,It harassed because it haunted.
2421,"Our present incarnation is progressive, preparatory, temporary."
2422,"For example, he used to leap upon the dinner table thus, and and "" Here a friend, at the side of the speaker, put a hand upon his shoulder and whispered a few words in his ear, upon which he ceased talking with great suddenness, and sank back within his chair."
2423,"The patterns all hinted of remote secrets and unimaginable abysses in time and space, and the monotonously aquatic nature of the reliefs became almost sinister."
2424,One detail that annoyed me was the distribution of the few faint sounds I heard.
2425,"The change, it was said, came simultaneously with the Innsmouth epidemic of , and was thought by simple folk to have a dark connexion with hidden forces of evil."
2426,"Johansen and his men landed at a sloping mud bank on this monstrous Acropolis, and clambered slipperily up over titan oozy blocks which could have been no mortal staircase."
2427,"I lived with a farmer whose house was built higher up among the hills: a dark crag rose behind it, and, exposed to the north, the snow lay in its crevices the summer through."
2428,He impaired his vision by holding the object too close.
2429,"Vanity first prompted me to ask you: vanity, I call it; yet even in this I see the hand of fate your presence will soon be necessary; you will become the last resource of Perdita, her protector and consoler."
2430,"Birch, being by temperament phlegmatic and practical, did not shout long; but proceeded to grope about for some tools which he recalled seeing in a corner of the tomb."
2431,"DURING A pedestrian trip last summer, through one or two of the river counties of New York, I found myself, as the day declined, somewhat embarrassed about the road I was pursuing."
2432,"Raymond, the ambitious, restless Raymond, reposed midway on the great high road of life, and was content to give up all his schemes of sovereignty and fame, to make one of us, the flowers of the field."
2433,"An inquiry will afford us amusement,"" I thought this an odd term, so applied, but said nothing ""and, besides, Le Bon once rendered me a service for which I am not ungrateful."
2434,"Yet the fact, the deed, the thing diddling, is somewhat difficult to define."
2435,"These shadows of memory tell, indistinctly, of tall figures that lifted and bore me in silence down down still down till a hideous dizziness oppressed me at the mere idea of the interminableness of the descent."
2436,And the young men who had returned dwelt there no longer.
2437,All the head that I saw the monster possessed of was one of those Hessian canteens which resemble a large snuff box with a hole in the middle of the lid.
2438,"""What broad and rapid river is that which forces its way, with innumerable falls, through the mountainous wilderness, and finally through the wilderness of buildings?"""
2439,"You have done nothing which you could have avoided nothing, certainly, which renders you culpable."
2440,"The public papers immediately took up the theme, and the police were upon the point of making serious investigations, when, one fine morning, after the lapse of a week, Marie, in good health, but with a somewhat saddened air, made her re appearance at her usual counter in the perfumery."
2441,"""I have no better advice to give you,"" said Dupin."
2442,"He must have been trapped by the sinking whilst within his black abyss, or else the world would by now be screaming with fright and frenzy."
2443,"He replied in a hollow voice, ""Why deceive a helpless old man, why talk hypocritically to one half crazed?"
2444,Ordinary assassins employ no such modes of murder as this.
2445,"Our confinement is necessarily close; but the treatment the medical treatment, I mean is rather agreeable to the patients than otherwise."""
2446,"Paradise, it appears, has been, literally speaking, an island time out of mind that is to say, its northern boundary was always as far back as any record extends a rivulet, or rather a very narrow arm of the sea."
2447,"""'Heaven forbid Even if you were really criminal, for that can only drive you to desperation, and not instigate you to virtue."
2448,"If you had listened to the voice of conscience and heeded the stings of remorse before you had urged your diabolical vengeance to this extremity, Frankenstein would yet have lived."""
2449,"Did not I appear sanctified, even to myself, because this love had for its temple my heart?"
2450,"""An angel upon earth"" ejaculated a third."
2451,"I watched from midnight to one o'clock, when in spite of the sinister house, the unprotected window, and the approaching thunder and lightning, I felt singularly drowsy."
2452,"In the centre of this rift I perceived a white spot, but could not, at first, distinguish what it was."
2453,"I thanked him, and, turning from the main road, we entered a grass grown by path, which, in half an hour, nearly lost itself in a dense forest, clothing the base of a mountain."
2454,"It faced south, with one gable end buried to the lower windows in the eastward rising hill, and the other exposed to the foundations toward the street."
2455,"Thus, while Perdita was entertaining her guests, and anxiously awaiting the arrival of her lord, his ring was brought her; and she was told that a poor woman had a note to deliver to her from its wearer."
2456,"About this star, or at all events about a centre of gravity common to all the globes of the Milky Way and supposed to be near Alcyone in the Pleiades, every one of these globes was declared to be revolving, our own performing the circuit in a period of ,, of years We, with our present lights, our vast telescopic improvements, and so forth, of course find it difficult to comprehend the ground of an idea such as this."
2457,Maounds o' the dead an' the dyin' . . .
2458,"At times like these, minute circumstances assume giant and majestic proportions; the very swinging open of the white gate that admitted us into the forest, arrested my thoughts as matter of interest; it was an every day act, never to occur again The setting crescent of the moon glittered through the massy trees to our right, and when we entered the park, we scared a troop of deer, that fled bounding away in the forest shades."
2459,"Sometimes she reproached herself for taking too bitterly to heart, that which many would esteem an imaginary evil; but this was no subject for reason; and, ignorant as she was of the motives and true conduct of Raymond, things assumed for her even a worse appearance, than the reality warranted."
2460,Distinguished several words.
2461,"In another second I was alone in the accursed mansion, shivering and gibbering."
2462,This professor was very unlike his colleague.
2463,"Upon reaching the opposite shore, the three passengers stepped out, and had proceeded so far as to be beyond the view of the boat, when the daughter discovered that she had left in it her parasol."
2464,"Ahead was the robed black man he had seen in the peaked space in the other dream, while from a lesser distance the old woman was beckoning and grimacing imperiously."
2465,"Several weeks had elapsed since the festival of the anniversary, and she had been unable to calm her mind, or to subdue her thoughts to any regular train."
2466,"He tried to make us act plays and to enter into masquerades, in which the characters were drawn from the heroes of Roncesvalles, of the Round Table of King Arthur, and the chivalrous train who shed their blood to redeem the holy sepulchre from the hands of the infidels."
2467,"I was frantic with every species of wild excitement, and felt within my single arm the energy and power of a multitude."
2468,"I asked, it is true, for greater treasures than a little food or rest: I required kindness and sympathy; but I did not believe myself utterly unworthy of it."
2469,"Let us go to Oonai, O Iranon of the golden head, where men shall know our longings and welcome us as brothers, nor ever laugh or frown at what we say."""
2470,"The wide, heavy folding doors of the apartment were all at once thrown open, to their full extent, with a vigorous and rushing impetuosity that extinguished, as if by magic, every candle in the room."
2471,"There were no cuts apparent, or bruises which appeared the effect of blows."
2472,"He paused exhausted, as the whole group of natives stared in a bewilderment not quite crystallised into fresh terror."
2473,and it made easy to her the bed of her death.
2474,"With the years the legends take on a spectral character I suppose the thing, if it was a living thing, must have died."
2475,"'Dod rot him I haven't a doubt of it,' replied the foreman, getting purple with rage 'but I tell you what you do, Bob, that's a good boy you go over the first chance you get and hook every one of their i's and d n them their izzards.'"
2476,"""It seems that the total destruction of Constantinople, and the supposition that winter had purified the air of the fallen city, gave the Greeks courage to visit its site, and begin to rebuild it."
2477,"Up the long drive rolled the coaches of the Boston gentry, whilst on foot came a numerous assemblage of powdered exquisites from the neighbouring mansions."
2478,"""We must cut him,"" continued Mr. Crab, ""decidedly and forever."
2479,"The material seemed to be predominantly gold, though a weird lighter lustrousness hinted at some strange alloy with an equally beautiful and scarcely identifiable metal."
2480,"The Duc muttered a slight oath, decidedly approbatory."
2481,"""Oh my"" lisped the Marquis."
2482,My application was at first fluctuating and uncertain; it gained strength as I proceeded and soon became so ardent and eager that the stars often disappeared in the light of morning whilst I was yet engaged in my laboratory.
2483,"Into the sunset wandered Iranon, seeking still for his native land and for men who would understand and cherish his songs and dreams."
2484,"The left lung had been for eighteen months in a semi osseous or cartilaginous state, and was, of course, entirely useless for all purposes of vitality."
2485,"Hasheesh helped a great deal, and once sent him to a part of space where form does not exist, but where glowing gases study the secrets of existence."
2486,"I seemed to know where I was, but cannot recall what I then knew."
2487,"I had passed two whole years alone unrepining, but now I was miserable."
2488,"I have said that I dwelt apart from the visible world, but I have not said that I dwelt alone."
2489,"These persons were not all cut off suddenly by any one cause; rather did it seem that their vitality was insidiously sapped, so that each one died the sooner from whatever tendency to weakness he may have naturally had."
2490,Doubled his fist and knocked me down.
2491,"His build and lower facial features were like other clergymen I had seen, but he had a vastly higher forehead, and was darker and more intelligent looking also more subtly and concealedly evil looking."
2492,"Raymond had quitted the palace the night before; he had promised to grace the assembly, but he had not yet returned."
2493,"Its wandering and wild glances fell at this moment upon the head of the bed, over which the face of its master, rigid with horror, was just discernible."
2494,Will the gods never cease their persecution?
2495,Upon hearing this he appeared satisfied and consented to come on board.
2496,"I lifted her into the chaise; I assured her that with our four horses we should arrive in London before five o'clock, the hour when she would be sought and missed."
2497,"On another night Kuranes walked up a damp stone spiral stairway endlessly, and came to a tower window overlooking a mighty plain and river lit by the full moon; and in the silent city that spread away from the river bank he thought he beheld some feature or arrangement which he had known before."
2498,"""It was fully eleven by the time I had completed these arrangements, and I immediately betook myself to bed, with full confidence in the efficiency of my invention."
2499,"Thus, sweetest, I shall not appear to die."
2500,"Born at Athens, that city claimed him for her own, and by giving him the command of her peculiar division in the army, the commander in chief only possessed superior power."
2501,"The matter of the cult still remained to fascinate me, and at times I had visions of personal fame from researches into its origin and connexions."
2502,There was no escape from this conclusion.
2503,"Thus often, pushing my way with difficulty through the narrow snow blocked town, I crossed the bridge and passed through Eton."
2504,"The huge old house, with its countless subdivisions, had several large chambers communicating with each other, where slept the greater number of the students."
2505,"Yes, she loved me she returned the enthusiasm of my love, with an enthusiasm as blind as uncompromising as uncalculating as abandoned and as utterly unbounded as my own These delicious fancies and reflections, however, were now interrupted by the falling of the drop curtain."
2506,"""Felix had accidentally been present at the trial; his horror and indignation were uncontrollable when he heard the decision of the court."
2507,"When he had gone, the superintendent ushered me into a small and exceedingly neat parlor, containing, among other indications of refined taste, many books, drawings, pots of flowers, and musical instruments."
2508,"And for seventeen years after that West would look frequently over his shoulder, and complain of fancied footsteps behind him."
2509,The empire of the Mahometans in Europe was at its close.
2510,And now was acknowledged the presence of the Red Death.
2511,"And old folk tell of pleasing voices heard singing there, and of laughter that swells with joys beyond earth's joys; and say that at evening the little low windows are brighter than formerly."
2512,"She never caressed me, and seemed all the time I staid in the room to fear that I should annoy her by some childish freak."
2513,"I was astonished, too, at the vast extent of his reading; and, above all, I felt my soul enkindled within me by the wild fervor, and the vivid freshness of his imagination."
2514,"How little does the earth self know of life and its extent How little, indeed, ought it to know for its own tranquillity Of the oppressor I cannot speak."
2515,This cloth we suppose to have a twofold object.
2516,"A silence prevailed, till one of the members coming to me, whispered that the Earl of Windsor had sent him word that I was to move his election, in the absence of the person who had been first chosen for this office."
2517,"I have prevented his encountering the inconveniences and perhaps dangers of so long a journey, yet how often have I regretted not being able to perform it myself I figure to myself that the task of attending on your sickbed has devolved on some mercenary old nurse, who could never guess your wishes nor minister to them with the care and affection of your poor cousin."
2518,I built my hope on your confidence.
2519,"It passed in many convolutions about my limbs and body, leaving at liberty only my head, and my left arm to such extent that I could, by dint of much exertion, supply myself with food from an earthen dish which lay by my side on the floor."
2520,"And behind the houses were walled rose gardens with hedged paths and sundials, where at evening the moon and stars would shine bewitchingly while fragrant blossoms glistened with dew."
2521,"There were some who even conceived that Mr. Ellison would divest himself of at least one half of his fortune, as of utterly superfluous opulence enriching whole troops of his relatives by division of his superabundance."
2522,"Drawing inside the hall of my deserted shelter, I once more consulted the grocery boy's map with the aid of the flashlight."
2523,"Moreover, this knot is one which few besides sailors can tie, and is peculiar to the Maltese."
2524,"The body of the little man was more than proportionately broad, giving to his entire figure a rotundity highly absurd."
2525,"At noon we met again, and we threw away in contempt our peasant fare, as we built our fire place and kindled the cheering blaze destined to cook the game stolen from the neighbouring preserves."
2526,"Her letter to Raymond gave no clue for discovery; it assured him, that she was in no danger of wanting the means of life; she promised in it to preserve herself, and some future day perhaps to present herself to him in a station not unworthy of her."
2527,"He did not respond, and still the viol shrieked on without slackening."
2528,"It is well that the reader accept nothing which follows as objective truth, for since the events transcend natural law, they are necessarily the subjective and unreal creations of my overtaxed mind."
2529,"In the present instance, Eugenie, who for a few moments past had seemed to be searching for something in her bosom, at length let fall upon the grass a miniature, which I immediately picked up and presented to her. ""Keep it"" she said, with one of her most ravishing smiles."
2530,"He was all animation; you could no longer trace in his look of health, the suffering valetudinarian; from his smile and sprightly tones you could not guess that he was about to lead forth from their native country, the numbered remnant of the English nation, into the tenantless realms of the south, there to die, one by one, till the LAST MAN should remain in a voiceless, empty world."
2531,"I returned to the boat as my electric batteries grew feeble, resolved to explore the rock temple on the following day."
2532,"Oh, gigantic paradox, too utterly monstrous for solution At an angle of the ponderous wall frowned a more ponderous gate."
2533,"Does the reader wish to hear of the pest houses, where death is the comforter of the mournful passage of the death cart of the insensibility of the worthless, and the anguish of the loving heart of harrowing shrieks and silence dire of the variety of disease, desertion, famine, despair, and death?"
2534,"The overgrown metropolis, the great heart of mighty Britain, was pulseless."
2535,"One night last winter I entered a box at the P Theatre, in company with a friend, Mr. Talbot."
2536,"Being now afraid to live alone in the ancient house on the moor, I departed on the following day for London, taking with me the amulet after destroying by fire and burial the rest of the impious collection in the museum."
2537,"It's a frightful thing to have alive, but it isn't as bad as what Wilbur would have let in if he'd lived longer."
2538,"Suffering and amiability may exist together, and writers have loved to depict their conjunction; there is a human and touching harmony in the picture."
2539,On hearing this information I suffered a temporary access of despair.
2540,"He lives all alone with his streaked cat in Gray's Inn, and people call him harmlessly mad."
2541,"He was principal of the East High School, born and bred in Boston and sharing New England's self satisfied deafness to the delicate overtones of life."
2542,Hearken and observe how healthily how calmly I can tell you the whole story.
2543,"The natural platform to which we had clambered was thickly overgrown with brambles, through which we soon discovered that it would have been impossible to force our way but for the scythe; and Jupiter, by direction of his master, proceeded to clear for us a path to the foot of an enormously tall tulip tree, which stood, with some eight or ten oaks, upon the level, and far surpassed them all, and all other trees which I had then ever seen, in the beauty of its foliage and form, in the wide spread of its branches, and in the general majesty of its appearance."
2544,A careful search soon brought to light the hidden spring.
2545,We passed through busy towns and cultivated plains.
2546,"When near the front door he seemed to think of something, and turned back in his flight, finally disappearing down the stairs to the cellar."
2547,"Pardon this gush of sorrow; these ineffectual words are but a slight tribute to the unexampled worth of Henry, but they soothe my heart, overflowing with the anguish which his remembrance creates."
2548,"""Is this your promised zeal?"" ""Pardon me,"" I said, ""but even as you speak, I am gone."""
2549,"The Hermes of Kalos stood in a marble shrine in Corinth, and the Pallas of Musides surmounted a pillar in Athens, near the Parthenon."
2550,"After an interval, however, we approached the pit again, and found the exhalations less unbearable."
2551,"I lost sight of her, and in about a quarter of an hour she returned bearing the pail, which was now partly filled with milk."
2552,"""It is certainly a strange place What is the meaning of yonder singular building?"
2553,No time or space can tear from my soul that which makes a part of it.
2554,"The third was green throughout, and so were the casements."
2555,"Those scars was it like that?"""
2556,"And that look in the staring eyed faces of my grandmother and self slain uncle might be sheer fancy on my part sheer fancy, bolstered up by the Innsmouth shadow which had so darkly coloured my imagination."
2557,"He was great in dreams, portents, et id genus omne of rigmarole."
2558,She was half mad from the effects of uncontrollable agitation.
2559,"But, there being no division, my first step was to ascertain the predominant letters, as well as the least frequent."
2560,"""I am very much surprised,"" I said, ""at what you tell me; for I made sure that, at this moment, no other method of treatment for mania existed in any portion of the country."""
2561,"They have three cornered cocked hats, purple waistcoats reaching down to their thighs, buckskin knee breeches, red stockings, heavy shoes with big silver buckles, long surtout coats with large buttons of mother of pearl."
2562,"Most men ruthlessly destroy the sacred veil, with which the female heart is wont to adorn the idol of its affections."
2563,"As I marked the placid expression that had settled on her countenance in death, I felt, in spite of the pangs of remorse, in spite of heart rending regret, that it was better to die so, than to drag on long, miserable years of repining and inconsolable grief."
2564,Of scepticism there was none.
2565,"Warning me that many of the street signs were down, the youth drew for my benefit a rough but ample and painstaking sketch map of the town's salient features."
2566,"On the contrary, we not only indulged but encouraged them; and many of our most permanent cures have been thus effected."
2567,I alluded to the coldness of her letters; but the few minutes we had spent together sufficiently explained the origin of this.
2568,"One secret which I alone possessed was the hope to which I had dedicated myself; and the moon gazed on my midnight labours, while, with unrelaxed and breathless eagerness, I pursued nature to her hiding places."
2569,"Over the seas there was a great victory, and in triumph most of the young men returned."
2570,"She returned no more to her husband, but, concealing from him her resurrection, fled with her lover to America."
2571,I was for ever with him.
2572,"A length I found that he had altered his route; at first he had followed the London road; but now he changed it, and upon enquiry I found that the one which he now pursued led towards the sea."
2573,"I was their plaything and their idol, and something better their child, the innocent and helpless creature bestowed on them by heaven, whom to bring up to good, and whose future lot it was in their hands to direct to happiness or misery, according as they fulfilled their duties towards me."
2574,"But even if I were condemned to suffer on the scaffold for the same crimes, I would not change places with such a wretch."""
2575,"It is merely a very long rope which is suffered to trail from the car, and the effect of which is to prevent the balloon from changing its level in any material degree."
2576,From no particular disposition of the men at one period of a game can we predicate their disposition at a different period.
2577,You have no reason for concealment.
2578,"This ledge projected about eighteen inches, and was not more than a foot wide, while a niche in the cliff just above it, gave it a rude resemblance to one of the hollow backed chairs used by our ancestors."
2579,"And a thousand years of riches and delight passed over Sarnath, wonder of the world and pride of all mankind."
2580,"""Several witnesses, recalled, here testified that the chimneys of all the rooms on the fourth story were too narrow to admit the passage of a human being."
2581,There was no discoloration in the cellular tissue.
2582,"I passed whole days on the lake alone in a little boat, watching the clouds and listening to the rippling of the waves, silent and listless."
2583,"Yet one moment, one brief interval before I put from shore once, once again let me fancy myself as I was in in my abode at Windsor, let me close my eyes, and imagine that the immeasurable boughs of its oaks still shadow me, its castle walls anear."
2584,"But as, in ethics, evil is a consequence of good, so, in fact, out of joy is sorrow born."
2585,"Your acting is very natural, as I live."""
2586,I hastened to carry the intelligence of these strange proceedings to Perdita; and we were soon joined by Raymond.
2587,"Once my heart sat lightly in my bosom; all the beauty of the world was doubly beautiful, irradiated by the sun light shed from my own soul."
2588,Alone I buried him beneath the stones of the courtyard about which he had loved to wander in life.
2589,"After awhile she discovered, that amidst all her newly acquired knowledge, her own character, which formerly she fancied that she thoroughly understood, became the first in rank among the terrae incognitae, the pathless wilds of a country that had no chart."
2590,"It struck me as horribly like a sort of Oriental ceremony, with beating of drums and chanting of many voices."
2591,"But at length the ceremony of baptism presented to my mind, in its unnerved and agitated condition, a present deliverance from the terrors of my destiny."
2592,"He got this in London, I guess he uster like ter buy things at the shops."
2593,"In the first place, my left arm had been broken in my fall from the ladder, and, therefore, had I let go my hold with the right hand, I must have let go altogether."
2594,It must be confessed that a supposition apparently so wild has every probability in its favor.
2595,To all this I am sorry that I cannot reply.
2596,"What a noble boon, worthy the giver, is the imagination it takes from reality its leaden hue: it envelopes all thought and sensation in a radiant veil, and with an hand of beauty beckons us from the sterile seas of life, to her gardens, and bowers, and glades of bliss."
2597,"The plague entered the village; and, while fright and grief deprived the inhabitants of the little wisdom they possessed, old Martha stepped forward and said ""Before now I have been in a town where there was the plague."""
2598,"A youngster who, but a few years ago, believed in Cornelius Agrippa as firmly as in the gospel, has now set himself at the head of the university; and if he is not soon pulled down, we shall all be out of countenance."
2599,"Nevertheless I followed him; for in those dreary days my quest for antique beauty and mystery was all that I had to keep my soul alive, and I reckoned it a rare favour of Fate to fall in with one whose kindred seekings seemed to have penetrated so much farther than mine."
2600,"Little was said; and our chief embarrassment lay in the yelpings of the dog, who took exceeding interest in our proceedings."
2601,"This was not much, though, for the old woman was spinning very hard, and the aged clock had been striking."
2602,"Thus not the tenderness of friendship, nor the beauty of earth, nor of heaven, could redeem my soul from woe; the very accents of love were ineffectual."
2603,"Ugh I can see them now Their occupations well, don't ask me to be too precise."
2604,"No one remains to lay flowers before the granite portal, and few care to brave the depressing shadows which seem to linger strangely about the water worn stones."
2605,"He had returned, and he wrote to know whether my aunt would come to London or whether he should visit her in Scotland."
2606,"The 'Hum Drum,' the 'Rowdy Dow' and the 'Goosetherumfoodle' must look well to their laurels."
2607,"And thereafter the ocean told me its secrets no more; and though many times since has the moon shone full and high in the heavens, the White Ship from the South came never again."
2608,"From the one we gather unquiet speculation, from the other satiety."
2609,"For the last time we looked on the wide extent of country visible from the terrace, and saw the last rays of the sun tinge the dark masses of wood variegated by autumnal tints; the uncultivated fields and smokeless cottages lay in shadow below; the Thames wound through the wide plain, and the venerable pile of Eton college, stood in dark relief, a prominent object; the cawing of the myriad rooks which inhabited the trees of the little park, as in column or thick wedge they speeded to their nests, disturbed the silence of evening."
2610,"When night came on, she begged that Clara might sleep in a separate cabin."
2611,How petty do the actions of our earthly life appear when the whole universe is opened to our gaze yet there our passions are deep irrisisbable sic and as we are floating hopless yet clinging to hope down the impetuous stream can we perceive the beauty of its banks which alas my soul was too turbid to reflect If knowledge is the end of our being why are passions feelings implanted in us that hurries sic us from wisdom to selfconcentrated misery narrow selfish feeling?
2612,"To drag hour after hour, to see the trees wave their branches restlessly, to feel the air, to suffer in all I feel keenest agony."
2613,"He seemed to regard the circumstance as one of great significance, and told the loungers at Osborn's that he thought his time had almost come."
2614,"There were circumstances but I think it much safer upon consideration to say as little as possible about an affair so delicate so delicate, I repeat, and at the time involving the interests of a third party whose sulphurous resentment I have not the least desire, at this moment, of incurring."
2615,"The head of which only the back was visible, rivalled in outline that of the Greek Psyche, and was rather displayed than concealed by an elegant cap of gaze aerienne, which put me in mind of the ventum textilem of Apuleius."
2616,"Poor justification this, in truth, for an authority so imperiously assumed Poor indemnity for natural rights of self agency so pertinaciously, so insultingly denied I had also been forced to notice that my tormentor, for a very long period of time, while scrupulously and with miraculous dexterity maintaining his whim of an identity of apparel with myself, had so contrived it, in the execution of his varied interference with my will, that I saw not, at any moment, the features of his face."
2617,"If I live a thousand years, I can never forget the intense emotion with which I regarded this figure."
2618,"I was very ill for a long time, and when I recovered from the immediate danger of fever, every symptom of a rapid consumption declared itself."
2619,"Then comes a sense of sudden motionlessness throughout all things; as if those who bore me a ghastly train had outrun, in their descent, the limits of the limitless, and paused from the wearisomeness of their toil."
2620,"We were as a man who hears that his house is burning, and yet hurries through the streets, borne along by a lurking hope of a mistake, till he turns the corner, and sees his sheltering roof enveloped in a flame."
2621,"No observing person can have failed to notice the peculiarly deserted air of the town, from about eight until ten on the morning of every Sabbath."
2622,"As I would return from my sometimes discouraging trips and lay my spoils before the closed bathroom door, I could hear a restless splashing within, and a thick voice croaking out the order for ""More more"" At length a warm day broke, and the shops opened one by one."
2623,"Shall I bow my head before them, and with servile gesture sell my nobility for life?"
2624,There were delirious fancies such as the madman fashions.
2625,"Six years before, in Flanders, a shelled hospital had fallen upon the headless reanimated trunk of Dr. Clapham Lee, and upon the detached head which perhaps had uttered articulate sounds."
2626,"The gale still held on, however, and we saw no signs of its abating."
2627,"He tried to recall just where he had found the key, but something seemed very confused."
2628,could I? that was the question.
2629,"It was horribly realistic, and I could soon distinguish by its aid the familiar objects around me, as well as the empty sodium bromide glass of which I had had no former visual impression in its present location."
2630,"Had he been sleep walking within his room, and had the rat bitten him as he sat in some chair or paused in some less rational position?"
2631,"So through endless twilights I dreamed and waited, though I knew not what I waited for."
2632,"He handed me a paper, and I read thus: CAUGHT In the Bois de Boulogne, early in the morning of the inst., the morning of the murder, a very large, tawny Ourang Outang of the Bornese species."
2633,"I was guiltless, but I had indeed drawn down a horrible curse upon my head, as mortal as that of crime."
2634,"He seemed exceptionally eager to talk, and I soon gathered that he did not like the place, its fishy smell, or its furtive people."
2635,"America had also received the taint; and, were it yellow fever or plague, the epidemic was gifted with a virulence before unfelt."
2636,I don't believe anybody since Goya could put so much of sheer hell into a set of features or a twist of expression.
2637,"They paid me no manner of attention, and, although I stood in the very midst of them all, seemed utterly unconscious of my presence."
2638,"Here he pointed to a fabulous creature of the artist, which one might describe as a sort of dragon with the head of an alligator."
2639,"They have a trim bungalow now at Bristol Highlands, where no tall crags tower, and the neighbours are urban and modern."
2640,"Walking or running on such a surface was very difficult; but I did my best, and on the whole made very fair time."
2641,"Grandmothers told strange myths of the Martense spectre; myths concerning the Martense family itself, its queer hereditary dissimilarity of eyes, its long, unnatural annals, and the murder which had cursed it."
2642,His contrast with his squalid mother and grandfather in this respect was thought very notable until the horror of suggested the most valid of reasons.
2643,"""Here,"" he resumed, arising and leaning on my arm as he sauntered around the apartment, ""here are paintings from the Greeks to Cimabue, and from Cimabue to the present hour."
2644,You long for death and yet you fear it and wish me to be your companion.
2645,"Agatha asked a question, to which the stranger only replied by pronouncing, in a sweet accent, the name of Felix."
2646,Thet feller bein' chopped up gives me a tickle every time I look at 'im I hev ta keep lookin' at 'im see whar the butcher cut off his feet?
2647,"Her bent back, long nose, and shrivelled chin were unmistakable, and her shapeless brown garments were like those he remembered."
2648,"Not with Raymond, who was unconscious of the misery he occasioned; not with Evadne, for her his soul wept tears of blood poor, mistaken girl, slave not tyrant was she, and amidst his own anguish he grieved for her future destiny."
2649,"When night came again the barricading was repeated, though there was less huddling together of families."
2650,"All at once he commenced to mutter, and I did not like the look of his mouth and teeth as he spoke."
2651,"The lion, the tiger, and the leopard are entirely without restraint."
2652,"It was at : P.M., August , that poor Klenze went wholly mad."
2653,There came forth in return only a jingling of the bells.
2654,In the morning I went to the court; my lips and throat were parched.
2655,"""Two"" continued the big bell; and ""Doo"" repeated all the repeaters."
2656,"For if it were, the inventor, so far from wishing its mechanism to appear complex, and using deception for the purpose of giving it this appearance, would have been especially desirous of convincing those who witnessed his exhibition, of the simplicity of the means by which results so wonderful were brought about. ."
2657,"They are pouring through the alley of Heraclides, which leads directly from the palace; therefore the king is most probably among the rioters."
2658,"His room, one of only two in the steeply pitched garret, was on the west side, toward the high wall that formed the upper end of the street."
2659,"She slept; and quiet prevailed in the Castle, whose inhabitants were hushed to repose."
2660,"Already the defenceless citizens had suffered through the barbarity of the Janisaries; and, in time of storm, tumult and massacre, beauty, infancy and decrepitude, would have alike been sacrificed to the brutal ferocity of the soldiers."
2661,In reply to my question Tillinghast mumbled that this permanent glow was not electrical in any sense that I could understand.
2662,I had swooned; but still will not say that all of consciousness was lost.
2663,"And since in the wide world thou remainest, why should I complain?"
2664,"I took leave of him amicably, and wish him all the success his talent promises."
2665,"Perhaps the strain had been too great; for Dr. Muñoz made it whisperingly clear though not in detail that the methods of healing had been most extraordinary, involving scenes and processes not welcomed by elderly and conservative Galens."
2666,"So each night in sleep I strove to find the hidden latch of the gate in the ivied antique wall, though it was exceedingly well hidden."
2667,Of course I don't speak of the political articles.
2668,"""True,"" I replied; ""the Amontillado."""
2669,"""He had married,"" he said, ""for love, and for love only; and his bride was far more than worthy of his love."""
2670,You perceive I cannot speak of these latter without enthusiasm; it is not too much to say that they were the handsomest pair of whiskers under the sun.
2671,"No it wasn't the paintings I saw in that place; though I'll swear they were enough to get him ostracised in nine tenths of the homes and clubs of Boston, and I guess you won't wonder now why I have to steer clear of subways and cellars."
2672,"I entered, and one glance assured me that its former inhabitant was no more he lay on a heap of straw, cold and stiff; while a pernicious effluvia filled the room, and various stains and marks served to shew the virulence of the disorder."
2673,"At the start, the western wall had lain some twenty feet up a precipitous lawn from the roadway; but a widening of the street at about the time of the Revolution sheared off most of the intervening space, exposing the foundations so that a brick basement wall had to be made, giving the deep cellar a street frontage with door and two windows above ground, close to the new line of public travel."
2674,"This is merely a joke of yours, I know ha ha ha how very pleasant you are at times."""
2675,"""Diavolo"" cried Count Capricornutti."
2676,"No one cared to remain there amidst the stench and tarry stickiness, but all turned instinctively to the line of horrible prints leading on toward the wrecked Whateley farmhouse and the altar crowned slopes of Sentinel Hill."
2677,"When the question is demanded explicitly of Maelzel ""Is the Automaton a pure machine or not?"" his reply is invariably the same ""I will say nothing about it."""
2678,"If she is, as you believe, innocent, rely on the justice of our laws, and the activity with which I shall prevent the slightest shadow of partiality."""
2679,"She was delighted to see us; caressed our children, praised their growth and improvement; Clara also was pleased to meet again her young friend Alfred; all kinds of childish games were entered into, in which Perdita joined."
2680,"On the other hand, you are bound by every principle of honor to confess all you know."
2681,The multitude extolled the same poems that formed the wonder of the sage in his closet: there was not one dissentient voice.
2682,"I exclaimed, ""I have now found out the secret"" ""What secret?"""
2683,"The evil was so wide spreading, so violent and immedicable, that no care, no prevention could be judged superfluous, which even added a chance to our escape."
2684,It was a sense of routine which kept me from going mad.
2685,"I would in vain attempt to portray the majesty, the quiet ease, of her demeanor, or the incomprehensible lightness and elasticity of her footfall."
2686,"Or rather, there's only one living soul for I haven't been digging around in the past for nothing ""See here, you're interested in this sort of thing."
2687,"Even Adrian was obliged in part to yield, that he might be able, if not to guide, at least to set bounds to the license of the times."
2688,"I, who had ever been surrounded by amiable companions, continually engaged in endeavouring to bestow mutual pleasure I was now alone."
2689,"It was May, four years ago, that I first saw my beloved father; it was in May, three years ago that my folly destroyed the only being I was doomed to love."
2690,"Distant though it was from the remnant of a road, the house none the less impressed me unfavourably the very moment I espied it."
2691,"""Yes,"" said I, ""I remember his merriment well."
2692,"This adventure occurred near Richmond, in Virginia."
2693,"I now determined to keep a journal of my passage, reckoning the days from one to twenty four hours continuously, without taking into consideration the intervals of darkness."
2694,"For he who passes the gateways always wins a shadow, and never again can he be alone."
2695,"""Let him talk,"" said Dupin, who had not thought it necessary to reply."
2696,I related my meeting with her; the story of her death was told and re told.
2697,Jupiter's account of him boded no good.
2698,"""Our boat was the lightest feather of a thing that ever sat upon water."
2699,"It was the steady, stealthy creaking of the stairs beyond the locked door, as with the ascent of a barefoot or skin shod horde; and at last the cautious, purposeful rattling of the brass latch that glowed in the feeble candlelight."
2700,"These peculiarities are, no doubt, mere mannerisms of M. Maelzel, or, if he is aware of them at all, he puts them in practice with a view of exciting in the spectators a false idea of the pure mechanism in the Automaton."
2701,"""But there are still other and stronger reasons for believing them so deposited, than any which I have as yet urged."
2702,"It was too much, however, for the exotic delicacy of the metal work, and the spiky figure snapped off under his grasp."
2703,"But all at close of day, with riven planks and rent canvas make for shore, and are either wrecked ere they reach it, or find some wave beaten haven, some desart strand, whereon to cast themselves and die unmourned."
2704,"The storm, as is often the case in Switzerland, appeared at once in various parts of the heavens."
2705,"And this thicket, so full of a natural art, was in the immediate vicinity, within a few rods, of the dwelling of Madame Deluc, whose boys were in the habit of closely examining the shrubberies about them in search of the bark of the sassafras."
2706,It was in Rome the Queen of the World that I suffered a misfortune that reduced me to misery despair The bright sun deep azure sky were oppressive but nought was so hateful as the voice of Man I loved to walk by the shores of the Tiber which were solitary if the sirocco blew to see the swift clouds pass over St. Peters and the many domes of Rome or if the sun shone I turned my eyes from the sky whose light was too dazzling gay to be reflected in my tearful eyes I turned them to the river whose swift course was as the speedy departure of happiness and whose turbid colour was gloomy as grief Whether I slept I know not or whether it was in one of those many hours which I spent seated on the ground my mind a chaos of despair my eyes for ever wet by tears but I was here visited by a lovely spirit whom I have ever worshiped who tried to repay my adoration by diverting my mind from the hideous memories that racked it.
2707,I will therefore put you upon an expeditious and decisive plan of obtaining this very necessary information.
2708,"I repeat, then, that I speak of these things only as of coincidences."
2709,"How few in youth's prime, moor their vessels on the ""golden sands,"" and collect the painted shells that strew them."
2710,"He had wild and original ideas on the independent vital properties of organic cells and nerve tissue separated from natural physiological systems; and achieved some hideous preliminary results in the form of never dying, artificially nourished tissue obtained from the nearly hatched eggs of an indescribable tropical reptile."
2711,"I fantastically associated these things with every day events, and thought them more natural than the coloured pictures of living beings which I found in many of the mouldy books."
2712,"At length Athib told him that their journey was near its end, and that they would soon enter the harbour of Serannian, the pink marble city of the clouds, which is built on that ethereal coast where the west wind flows into the sky; but as the highest of the city's carven towers came into sight there was a sound somewhere in space, and Kuranes awaked in his London garret."
2713,It was the moral embodiment of man's abstract idea of Time.
2714,"""It is a mere typographical error."
2715,And the traveller declares that instead of the place's wonted stench there lingered a delicate fragrance as of roses in full bloom.
2716,"In this case an overwhelming preponderance of evidence from numerous authentic sources pointed to the tenacious existence of certain forces of great power and, so far as the human point of view is concerned, exceptional malignancy."
2717,"But our man of business is in no hurry to conclude a contract with any no man of business is ever precipitate and it is not until the most rigid catechism in respect to the piety of each young gentleman's inclination, that his services are engaged and his fifty dollars receipted for, just by way of proper precaution, on the part of the respectable firm of Bogs, Hogs, Logs, Frogs, and Company."
2718,"I was dressed also in a whimsical nunlike habit which denoted that I did not retire to solitude from necessity, but that I might indulge in a luxury of grief, and fanciful seclusion."
2719,"""Extremely singular"" said the young Baron, with a musing air, and apparently unconscious of the meaning of his words."
2720,"Late at night the two youths sat drowsing in their chairs, lulled by the rhythmical praying of the loomfixer on the floor below."
2721,"The patriarchal lives of my protectors caused these impressions to take a firm hold on my mind; perhaps, if my first introduction to humanity had been made by a young soldier, burning for glory and slaughter, I should have been imbued with different sensations."
2722,"The cat was lying very demurely upon my coat, which I had taken off, and eyeing the pigeons with an air of nonchalance."
2723,"I understand your feeling,"" continued he, perceiving that I wished to interrupt him; ""but you are mistaken, my friend, if thus you will allow me to name you; nothing can alter my destiny; listen to my history, and you will perceive how irrevocably it is determined."""
2724,"Her head lay on my shoulder, her breath waved my hair, her heart beat near mine, transport made me tremble, blinded me, annihilated me till a suppressed groan, bursting from her lips, the chattering of her teeth, which she strove vainly to subdue, and all the signs of suffering she evinced, recalled me to the necessity of speed and succour."
2725,"Like a refreshing shower on an arid soil they revived me, and although I still kept their cause secret he led me to pour forth my bitter complaints and to clothe my woe in words of gall and fire."
2726,"An omnibus driver, Valence, now also testified that he saw Marie Rogêt cross a ferry on the Seine, on the Sunday in question, in company with a young man of dark complexion."
2727,"She died on the first approach of cold weather, at the beginning of this last winter."
2728,"At the windows were curtains of snowy white jaconet muslin: they were tolerably full, and hung decisively, perhaps rather formally in sharp, parallel plaits to the floor just to the floor."
2729,"""How far mus go up, massa?"" inquired Jupiter."
2730,"Lit by the mixed and uncertain beams, that gelatinous face assumed a dozen a score a hundred aspects; grinning, as it sank to the ground on a body that melted like tallow, in the caricatured likeness of legions strange and yet not strange."
2731,Victims had been in immediate demand.
2732,"Don't worry, they won't hurt you."
2733,You know my political prepossessions.
2734,A murmur of approbation rose after his speech.
2735,Do not talk of reflection; from this moment I abjure it; this is my only happy moment during a long interval of time.
2736,"Meanwhile Clerval occupied himself, so to speak, with the moral relations of things."
2737,In an instant the apartment had shifted its form into that of a lozenge.
2738,"The mill hands were of somewhat turbulent inclinations; and besides their many natural needs, their frequent clashes and stabbing affrays gave us plenty to do."
2739,When I mention his weakness I have allusion to a bizarre old womanish superstition which beset him.
2740,"I hired men to row and took an oar myself, for I had always experienced relief from mental torment in bodily exercise."
2741,"The corpse was in such condition when found, that there could have been no difficulty in its recognition by friends."
2742,My story requires that I should be somewhat minute.
2743,And thus were produced a multitude of gaudy and fantastic appearances.
2744,"you could not hope to conquer, and yet you gave me the pain of a triumph over my dearest friend."""
2745,"I saw the brow of Idris clouded; I again felt, that we were enchained to the car of fate, over whose coursers we had no control."
2746,From this it required much effort and attention to scare them away.
2747,My strength was gone.
2748,"Besides these things, were seen, on all sides, banners and palanquins, litters with stately dames close veiled, elephants gorgeously caparisoned, idols grotesquely hewn, drums, banners, and gongs, spears, silver and gilded maces."
2749,"But it could have been neither the execution of the work, nor the immortal beauty of the countenance, which had so suddenly and so vehemently moved me."
2750,But he can never be thus divested at least never will be else we must imagine an action of God returning upon itself a purposeless and futile action.
2751,It is noticeable that the popular prejudices and vulgar errors in regard to pestilences and wars errors which were wont to prevail upon every appearance of a comet were now altogether unknown.
2752,"At the beginning of winter our Alfred, now nine years of age, first went to school at Eton."
2753,"Suddenly he started up and fled from me; I pursued him: we sped over the fields, and by the skirts of woods, and on the banks of rivers; he flew fast and I followed."
2754,"ABOUT twelve o'clock, one night in the month of October, and during the chivalrous reign of the third Edward, two seamen belonging to the crew of the ""Free and Easy,"" a trading schooner plying between Sluys and the Thames, and then at anchor in that river, were much astonished to find themselves seated in the tap room of an ale house in the parish of St. Andrews, London which ale house bore for sign the portraiture of a ""Jolly Tar."""
2755,"As it was an epidemic, its chief force was derived from pernicious qualities in the air, and it would probably do little harm where this was naturally salubrious."
2756,"In my situation it is really a great relief to be able to open ones mouth to be able to expatiate to be able to communicate with a person like yourself, who do not think yourself called upon at every period to interrupt the thread of a gentleman's discourse."
2757,"Instead, she had gone to a spot her dead son had learned about, and had leaped to a realm whose wonders destined for him as well he had spurned with a smoking pistol."
2758,"The spectators being satisfied of this fact, Maelzel closes the back door, locks it, takes the key from the lock, lets fall the drapery of the figure, and comes round to the front."
2759,Wyatt's party arrived in about ten minutes after myself.
2760,"Meantime the devil, to whom the copy was entrusted, ran up stairs to his 'case,' in an unutterable hurry, and forthwith made a commencement at 'setting' the MS."
2761,"From several directions in the distance, however, I could hear the sound of hoarse voices, of footsteps, and of a curious kind of pattering which did not sound quite like footsteps."
2762,"It was as well to fail at last after a struggle, as to fly now at the beginning of his enterprise."
2763,"I wouldn't have put up with it, if I had."
2764,"Beyond all things, the study of the German moralists gave me great delight; not from any ill advised admiration of their eloquent madness, but from the ease with which my habits of rigid thought enabled me to detect their falsities."
2765,"Covering the earth with their creations and forming by the power of their minds another world more lovely than the visible frame of things, even all the world that we find in their writings."
2766,"Our single boatman attended to the sail; Raymond steered; Clara sat at his feet, clasping his knees with her arms, and laying her head on them."
2767,"No one can say that he has exactly lost a pocket book; but a great excitement ensues, when the treasure trove is found to be of value."
2768,"Could it be otherwise, when I daily discovered in the conceptions of the child the adult powers and faculties of the woman?"
2769,"But while I live, promise not to betray me; promise, my child."""
2770,"I stood on the brink of manhood; passions, strong as the trees of a forest, had already taken root within me, and were about to shadow with their noxious overgrowth, my path of life."
2771,"I crept along by the fern, on my hands and knees, seeking the shadowy coverts of the underwood, while the birds awoke with unwelcome song above, and the fresh morning wind, playing among the boughs, made me suspect a footfall at each turn."
2772,"Left to myself, I strove with painful intensity to divine the motive of his request and foresee the events of the coming day."
2773,"Upon this occasion my father said, with an expression of unbounded wonder, ""My dearest Victor, what infatuation is this?"
2774,"His room was as black as pitch with the thick darkness, for the shutters were close fastened, through fear of robbers, and so I knew that he could not see the opening of the door, and I kept pushing it on steadily, steadily."
2775,"""To morrow if you will."""
2776,"In the meantime, looking toward the cat, who was again snugly stowed away upon my coat, I discovered to my infinite surprise, that she had taken the opportunity of my indisposition to bring into light a litter of three little kittens."
2777,Here all was the wildest tumult and contention.
2778,He lived for some time never looking on the light of heaven but shrouding his eyes in a perpetual darkness far from all that could remind him of what he had been; but as time softened his grief like a true child of Nature he sought in the enjoyment of her beauties for a consolation in his unhappiness.
2779,"But this labor concluded, he may have thought it expedient to remove all participants in his secret."
2780,The Inquisition was in the hands of its enemies.
2781,"The Privilege of Reminiscence, however rambling or tiresome, is one generally allow'd to the very aged; indeed, 'tis frequently by means of such Recollections that the obscure occurrences of History, and the lesser Anecdotes of the Great, are transmitted to Posterity."
2782,"all grey, with kinder blue or purple rings . . ."
2783,"On the butcher's shop of the Anzique cannibals a small red spattering glistened picturesquely, lending vividness to the horror of the engraving."
2784,"Oh There is a fearful chasm; but I adjure you to beware"" ""Ah, dearest friend"" I cried, ""do not fear Speak that word; it will bring peace, not death."
2785,"Beyond the Karthian hills lieth Oonai, the city of lutes and dancing, which men whisper of and say is both lovely and terrible."
2786,"She remained with him until, by slow degrees, she fully recovered her original health."
2787,"Then the men, having reached a spot where the trees were thinner, came suddenly in sight of the spectacle itself."
2788,"I cannot attempt to transcribe it verbatim in all its cloudiness and redundance, but I will tell its gist enough to shew why the sound of the water against the vessel's sides became so unendurable to me that I stopped my ears with cotton."
2789,"His black hair was well cut and neatly brushed, and he was clean shaven though blue chinned with a heavy growth of beard."
2790,But even yet I refrained and kept still.
2791,"As I lay exhausted on the stone floor I heard the eerie echoes of its fall, but hoped when necessary to pry it open again."
2792,"You may hint at buck wheat cake, or you may even go so far as to insinuate oat meal porridge, but if bread and butter be your real meaning, be cautious, my dear Miss Psyche, not on any account to say 'bread and butter'"" I assured him that I should never say it again as long as I lived."
2793,"Her huge hull was of a deep dingy black, unrelieved by any of the customary carvings of a ship."
2794,"To me they stood in the place of an active career, of ambition, and those palpable excitements necessary to the multitude."
2795,"Yet not to excite fresh agitation in her, ""per non turbar quel bel viso sereno,"" I curbed my delight."
2796,In the summer of Wilbur repaired two sheds in the farmyard and began moving his books and effects out to them.
2797,This ice is not made of such stuff as your hearts may be; it is mutable and cannot withstand you if you say that it shall not.
2798,"It is impossible to describe, or to imagine, the deep, the blissful sense of relief which the absence of the detested creature occasioned in my bosom."
2799,"O come Farewell to the dead farewell to the tombs of those we loved farewell to giant London and the placid Thames, to river and mountain or fair district, birth place of the wise and good, to Windsor Forest and its antique castle, farewell themes for story alone are they, we must live elsewhere."
2800,"Captain Pratt maintains that to morrow will be Sunday: so it will; he is right, too."
2801,"All around were horror, and thick gloom, and a black sweltering desert of ebony."
2802,"There, in , his son Dutee was born; and there the family dwelt till the encroachments of commerce drove them back across the river and over the hill to Angell Street, in the newer East Side residence district, where the late Archer Harris built his sumptuous but hideous French roofed mansion in ."
2803,"Gilman dropped in at a doctor's office on the th of the month, and was surprised to find his temperature was not as high as he had feared."
2804,She urged the old story of decorum that bug bear which deters so many from bliss until the opportunity for bliss has forever gone by.
2805,"He seemed pleased, and went on with his instructions."
2806,"""Eleven"" said the big one."
2807,All outward things seemed to have lost their existence relatively to him and only one circumstance could in any degree recall him from his motionless and mute despair: he would never see me.
2808,"Some fear had been gathering in me, perhaps because of the strangeness of my heritage, and the bleakness of the evening, and the queerness of the silence in that aged town of curious customs."
2809,"""I am aware,"" said the traveller, as he drew a sigh of deep delight after gazing on this scene, entranced, for nearly an hour, ""I know that here, in my circumstances, nine tenths of the most fastidious of men would rest content."
2810,"""It is true that balloons, in the first stage of their ascensions from the earth, are known to rise with a velocity comparatively moderate."
2811,"And it was very odd that shingles so worm eaten could survive, or bricks so crumbled still form a standing chimney."
2812,"What I have heard has been at third or fourth hand."""
2813,"Thus we began to feel, with regard to many visaged death let loose on the chosen districts of our fair habitation, and above all, with regard to the plague."
2814,"The God sends down his angry plagues from high, Famine and pestilence in heaps they die."
2815,"On the faces of men were frowns, but by the stone embankment along the sluggish river Zuro sate a young boy with sad eyes gazing into the waters to spy green budding branches washed down from the hills by the freshets."
2816,"I exclaimed, ""and Voissart Why, what is it you mean?"" ""Vat I mean?"
2817,She had fortunately small cause for fear.
2818,Such a scene must have been one of deepest interest and high wrought passion.
2819,That I had left at most but eleven years of further existence was made certain to me by the words which I read.
2820,"From what black wells of Acherontic fear or feeling, from what unplumbed gulfs of extra cosmic consciousness or obscure, long latent heredity, were those half articulate thunder croakings drawn?"
2821,The other one did not prove so unfortunate.
2822,"Besides, in our case, we were obliged to proceed without noise."""
2823,"I have declared my resolution to you, and I am no coward to bend beneath words."
2824,I replied as best I could as only a true lover can.
2825,"Well do I remember the night of the great Aurora, when over the swamp played the shocking coruscations of the daemon light."
2826,"The origin of this enmity seems to be found in the words of an ancient prophecy ""A lofty name shall have a fearful fall when, as the rider over his horse, the mortality of Metzengerstein shall triumph over the immortality of Berlifitzing."""
2827,"Two of the figures I glimpsed were in voluminous robes, and one wore a peaked diadem which glistened whitely in the moonlight."
2828,"Each village, however small, usually contains a leader, one among themselves whom they venerate, whose advice they seek in difficulty, and whose good opinion they chiefly value."
2829,"We observed too, that, although the tempest continued to rage with unabated violence, there was no longer to be discovered the usual appearance of surf, or foam, which had hitherto attended us."
2830,"Apply to the 'Hum Drum,' the 'Lollipop,' or the 'Goosetherumfoodle.'"
2831,"I sat by the side of her ebony bed, upon one of the ottomans of India."
2832,"On his initiative we combed the countryside for information regarding the terrible Martense family, and discovered a man who possessed a marvellously illuminating ancestral diary."
2833,"For a short space of time I remained at the window watching the pallid lightnings that played above Mont Blanc and listening to the rushing of the Arve, which pursued its noisy way beneath."
2834,The apothecary had an idea that I was actually dead.
2835,That's haow the Kanakys got wind they was daown thar.
2836,I never saw any set of reasonable people so thoroughly frightened in my life.
2837,"He passed his younger days perpetually occupied by the affairs of his country; a variety of circumstances had prevented his marrying early, nor was it until the decline of life that he became a husband and the father of a family."
2838,"The interior of the automaton being then exhibited, and no person discovered, the spectators, says the author of this pamphlet, are satisfied that no one is within any portion of the machine."
2839,"""How is this?"" he cried."
2840,In the morning citizens and state troopers followed the shuddering mountaineers to the place where they said the death had come.
2841,Our little island was filled even to bursting.
2842,"The speaking impulse seemed to falter here, as if some frightful psychic struggle were going on."
2843,"""I could not tell you the twentieth part of the difficulties we encountered 'on the grounds' it is a bad spot to be in, even in good weather but we made shift always to run the gauntlet of the Moskoe ström itself without accident; although at times my heart has been in my mouth when we happened to be a minute or so behind or before the slack."
2844,"Alas that in human nature such a pitch of mental discipline, and disdainful negligence of nature itself, should not have been allied to the extreme of moral excellence But the resolution that permitted her to resist the pains of privation, sprung from the too great energy of her passions; and the concentrated self will of which this was a sign, was destined to destroy even the very idol, to preserve whose respect she submitted to this detail of wretchedness."
2845,"The Assembly, at this epoch, was unusually well informed, and, having passed many other wise and wholesome enactments, it crowned all with the Cat Act."
2846,But it is even so; the fallen angel becomes a malignant devil.
2847,"They all grew as pale as so many corpses, and, shrinking within their seats, sat quivering and gibbering with terror, and listening for a repetition of the sound."
2848,"If you refuse to contribute to my happiness, I quit England to night, and will never set foot in it again."
2849,"I was an only child, and the lack of companionship which this fact entailed upon me was augmented by the strange care exercised by my aged guardian in excluding me from the society of the peasant children whose abodes were scattered here and there upon the plains that surround the base of the hill."
2850,"Faint hearted It is well, shut up in your castle, out of danger, to boast yourself out of fear."
2851,"He bows, with his hand upon his heart, and most respectfully bids her adieu."
2852,"Much is also received into the stomach, and the whole body becomes heavier by the difference between the weight of the air originally distending these cavities, and that of the fluid which now fills them."
2853,A dozen times he hears or fancies the step of an observer.
2854,"I would not remain on the sea coast, but proceeded immediately inland."
2855,"When we first discovered her, her bows were alone to be seen, as she rose slowly from the dim and horrible gulf beyond her."
2856,"This revelation of simplicity removed much of the ill defined apprehension I had felt, and I smiled as my host rambled on: ""Queer haow picters kin set a body thinkin'."
2857,"Hereafter a very notorious Roman Emperor will institute this worship in Rome, and thence derive a cognomen, Heliogabalus."
2858,Have you drunk also of the intoxicating draught?
2859,"He evidently regarded his tall shipmate with a feeling half wondrous, half quizzical; and stared up occasionally in his face as the red setting sun stares up at the crags of Ben Nevis."
2860,"They clung to the wood they overran it, and leaped in hundreds upon my person."
2861,"But on the night after it was set up in the temple a terrible thing must have happened, for weird lights were seen over the lake, and in the morning the people found the idol gone, and the high priest Taran Ish lying dead, as from some fear unspeakable."
2862,"We have no business calling in such things from outside, and only very wicked people and very wicked cults ever try to."
2863,"That fateful night I was wildly agitated and perturbed, for despite the excellent care he had received, Joe Slater was unmistakably dying."
2864,"I had wished and tried to do more than suspect, and my friend had tried and partly succeeded."
2865,"Had the true scene been, as Le Commerciel suggested, in the neighborhood of the Rue Pavée St. Andrée, the perpetrators of the crime, supposing them still resident in Paris, would naturally have been stricken with terror at the public attention thus acutely directed into the proper channel; and, in certain classes of minds, there would have arisen, at once, a sense of the necessity of some exertion to redivert this attention."
2866,In the afternoon we all called again to see the patient.
2867,"Wal, it's this it ain't what them fish devils hez done, but what they're a goin' to do They're a bringin' things up aout o' whar they come from into the taown ben doin' it fer years, an' slackenin' up lately."
2868,"Deep ravines, in various directions, gave an air of still sterner solemnity to the scene."
2869,"Then, with lack lustre eyes, grey hairs, and wrinkled brow, though now the words sound hollow and meaningless, then, tottering on the grave's extreme edge, I may be your affectionate and true friend, ""PERDITA."""
2870,"To avoid the inconvenience of making a total vacuum at any moment within the chamber, this purification was never accomplished all at once, but in a gradual manner the valve being opened only for a few seconds, then closed again, until one or two strokes from the pump of the condenser had supplied the place of the atmosphere ejected."
2871,"The once occasional huskiness of his tone was heard no more; and a tremulous quaver, as if of extreme terror, habitually characterized his utterance."
2872,"Having satisfied myself upon this point, I was about turning my eyes to the prima donna, when they were arrested and riveted by a figure in one of the private boxes which had escaped my observation."
2873,I will be minute in relating all but at what point shall the weird narrative begin?
2874,"I could not help observing, however, the inferior scientific knowledge of my companion."
2875,I alighted and was conducted to my solitary apartment to spend the evening as I pleased.
2876,"The ultimate, or unparticled matter, not only permeates all things but impels all things and thus is all things within itself."
2877,"If you had moved, they would have been at you long ago."
2878,Under the influence of these circumstances his passions found a deep soil wherein they might strike their roots and flourish either as flowers or weeds as was their nature.
2879,"He was three feet in height I like to be particular and about seventy, or perhaps eighty, years of age."
2880,"The matter of the presumably weak heart, which to my mind imperiled the success of our experiment, did not appear to trouble West extensively."
2881,The different accidents of life are not so changeable as the feelings of human nature.
2882,"This was a strange speech, now that, on the empty stage, each might play his part without impediment from the other."
2883,"Feel you not the earth quake and open with agonizing groans, while the air is pregnant with shrieks and wailings, all announcing the last days of man?"
2884,"We stayed several hours with Justine, and it was with great difficulty that Elizabeth could tear herself away."
2885,"We had that afternoon dug a grave in the cellar, and would have to fill it by dawn for although we had fixed a lock on the house we wished to shun even the remotest risk of a ghoulish discovery."
2886,"""My dear Thingum,"" said he to me one day after dinner, ""I respect your abilities and love you as a son."
2887,"The courtiers, having entered, brought furnaces and massy hammers and welded the bolts."
2888,Everyone loved Elizabeth.
2889,"I knew not the word ""ease."""
2890,"Felix and Agatha spent more time in amusement and conversation, and were assisted in their labours by servants."
2891,"In the autumn of Phebe Harris gave birth to a still born daughter, and on the fifteenth of the next May Mercy Dexter took leave of a useful, austere, and virtuous life."
2892,"I have copied them chiefly to show you the extreme remissness of the police, who, as far as I can understand from the Prefect, have not troubled themselves, in any respect, with an examination of the naval officer alluded to."
2893,"The south is the native place of the human race; the land of fruits, more grateful to man than the hard earned Ceres of the north, of trees, whose boughs are as a palace roof, of couches of roses, and of the thirst appeasing grape."
2894,"My labours have cheered long hours of solitude, and taken me out of a world, which has averted its once benignant face from me, to one glowing with imagination and power."
2895,"""Remember, I ain't sayin' Obed was set on hevin' things jest like they was on that Kanaky isle."
2896,"Heaven shower down blessings on you, and save me, that I may again and again testify my gratitude for all your love and kindness."
2897,"He had, Elwood said, shewed no tendency to talk or rise in his sleep; and meanwhile the landlord was putting rat poison everywhere."
2898,His intellect was of that order to which the attainment of knowledge is less a labor than a necessity and an intuition.
2899,"He was met on the threshold by some insult, real or imaginary; some repulse, where he least expected it; some disappointment, hard for his pride to bear."
2900,"If, under any circumstances, she could have acquired sufficient courage to address the noble persons mentioned by her husband, the ill success of his own application caused her to banish the idea."
2901,"It is impossible; one might as well try to overtake the winds, or confine a mountain stream with a straw."
2902,"Several strange facts combined against her, which might have staggered anyone who had not such proof of her innocence as I had."
2903,"But the beauty and regularity of the new town of Edinburgh, its romantic castle and its environs, the most delightful in the world, Arthur's Seat, St. Bernard's Well, and the Pentland Hills compensated him for the change and filled him with cheerfulness and admiration."
2904,"It must have been frightful I could hear the screams up here in spite of all I was seeing and hearing from another direction, and later it was rather awful to find those empty heaps of clothes around the house."
2905,"Certainly, Erich Zann was a genius of wild power."
2906,"Ghastly as our prize appeared, it was wholly unresponsive to every solution we injected in its black arm; solutions prepared from experience with white specimens only."
2907,"One seeks to recall the original beauty of the country, by adapting its means to the surrounding scenery, cultivating trees in harmony with the hills or plain of the neighboring land; detecting and bringing into practice those nice relations of size, proportion, and color which, hid from the common observer, are revealed everywhere to the experienced student of nature."
2908,"All this I can still remember, though I no longer know what manner of thing we sought."
2909,"At length one of the most aged of the women said that she had heard of such a place as Bessop's Castle, and thought that she could guide me to it, but that it was not a castle nor a tavern, but a high rock."
2910,My practice was this.
2911,"Habitués say that it was at this point they noticed a cessation in the regular, monotonous strokes of the mop."
2912,"In this case, that the Automaton was about to move is evident and that he did not move, was an effect plainly produced by the withdrawal of the antagonist, and without any intervention of Maelzel."
2913,"He remembered the words of her letter and he indulged the wild idea that his kisses breathing warm love and life would infuse new spirit into her, and that with him near her she could not die; that his presence was the talisman of her life."
2914,"Excited by such appliances to vice, my constitutional temperament broke forth with redoubled ardor, and I spurned even the common restraints of decency in the mad infatuation of my revels."
2915,"In a word, the powers of mind more particularly exercised were, with me, as I have said before, the attentive, and are, with the day dreamer, the speculative."
2916,The triumph of my enemy increased with the difficulty of my labours.
2917,"""You shall conquer, then, mon ami,"" said she, ""for the sake of the Eugenie whom you love, this little weakness which you have at last confessed this weakness more moral than physical and which, let me assure you, is so unbecoming the nobility of your real nature so inconsistent with the candor of your usual character and which, if permitted further control, will assuredly involve you, sooner or later, in some very disagreeable scrape."
2918,But it is not a matter of choice; I can live here only.
2919,"To day I wear these chains, and am here To morrow I shall be fetterless but where?"
2920,"To have him once more in my arms, to see him, however changed, is all I desire."
2921,"Three years after the death of Kalos, Musides despatched a messenger to the Tyrant, and it was whispered in the agora at Tegea that the mighty statue was finished."
2922,"The solution consists in a series of minute explanations, accompanied by wood cuts, the whole occupying many pages in which the object is to show the possibility of so shifting the partitions of the box, as to allow a human being, concealed in the interior, to move portions of his body from one part of the box to another, during the exhibition of the mechanism thus eluding the scrutiny of the spectators."
2923,"Presently a smart footman in livery brought in a tray with fruit, wine, and other refreshments, of which I partook, the lady soon afterward leaving the room."
2924,"He was descended from a good family in France, where he had lived for many years in affluence, respected by his superiors and beloved by his equals."
2925,"When we asked them to help us find Bennett and Tobey they were truly distressed; for they wanted to help us, yet knew that these victims had gone as wholly out of the world as their own missing people."
2926,"The chanting of the men from Arkham now became unmistakable, and Wheeler saw through the glass that they were all raising their arms in the rhythmic incantation."
2927,"She was quite upon an even keel that is to say, her deck lay in a plane parallel with that of the water but this latter sloped at an angle of more than forty five degrees, so that we seemed to be lying upon our beam ends."
2928,"""Dear mountains my own beautiful lake how do you welcome your wanderer?"
2929,"""Dearest, dearest father, pity me and pardon me: I entreat you do not drive me to despair; indeed I must not be repulsed; there is one thing that which sic although it may torture me to know, yet that you must tell me."
2930,"But curiosity soon awoke, and an earnest love of knowledge, which caused me to pass days and nights in reading and study."
2931,the walls of the myriads of the shining bodies that mere number has appeared to blend into unity?
2932,"The grave yawned beneath us all, and its prospect prevented any of us from enjoying the ease and plenty which in so awful a manner was presented to us."
2933,It is beyond the reach of art to endow either air or recitative with more impassioned expression than was hers.
2934,All the objects organic and inorganic alike were totally beyond description or even comprehension.
2935,The occupation is often full of interest and he who attempts it for the first time is astonished by the apparently illimitable distance and incoherence between the starting point and the goal.
2936,"Tall, thin, and strait, her face still handsome, her raven hair hardly tinged with grey, her forehead arched and beautiful, had not the eye brows been somewhat scattered it was impossible not to be struck by her, almost to fear her."
2937,"What men attempt to embody in the word ""thought,"" is this matter in motion."
2938,"They will scarcely be so weak as not to 'realize,' in time, by large purchases of houses and land, with other property of intrinsic value."
2939,"There dwelt in that ghastly and flexible face, as it shone bodiless, luminous, and rejuvenated in the blackness, more of stark, teeming, brain shattering fear than all the rest of heaven and earth has ever revealed to me."
2940,"Had the whole actually vanished into air, it could not have shot from my sight in a more abrupt and instantaneous manner."
2941,"I am as positive that yesterday was Sunday as I am that I sit upon this chair."""
2942,"I have a friend who loves me as his life, and in whose breast I should infix a mortal sting if I ungratefully left him."
2943,"Muffled sounds of possible vocal origin approached, and at length a firm knock came at my outer door."
2944,"I was still smarting from my own disappointment; yet this scene oppressed me even to terror, nor could I interrupt his access of passion."
2945,"The father of the fair Juliet separated them; but not until the young lover had promised to remain absent only till he had rendered himself worthy of her, and she had vowed to preserve her virgin heart, his treasure, till he returned to claim and possess it."
2946,"Indeed, had they not themselves, in their high tower, often performed the very ancient and secret rite in detestation of Bokrug, the water lizard?"
2947,"Alas I who so lately knew of nought but the joy of life; who had slept only to dream sweet dreams and awoke to incomparable happiness, I now passed my days and nights in tears."
2948,"Wearied at length with observing its dull movement, I turned my eyes upon the other objects in the cell."
2949,"Oh When will my guiding spirit, in conducting me to the daemon, allow me the rest I so much desire; or must I die, and he yet live?"
2950,"To morrow, loveliest and best, hope and joy of my life, to morrow I will see thee Fool, to dream of a moment's delay I went to rest."
2951,"The same name the same contour of person the same day of arrival at the academy And then his dogged and meaningless imitation of my gait, my voice, my habits, and my manner Was it, in truth, within the bounds of human possibility, that what I now saw was the result, merely, of the habitual practice of this sarcastic imitation?"
2952,"So The Street slept uneasily on, till one night there gathered in Petrovitch's Bakery and the Rifkin School of Modern Economics, and the Circle Social Club, and Liberty Café, and in other places as well, vast hordes of men whose eyes were big with horrible triumph and expectation."
2953,"Now it seemed to me to be as a various river flowing through a fertile and lovely lanscape, ever changing and ever beautiful."
2954,"I visited with my father every delightful spot, either on the islands, or by the side of the tree sheltered waterfalls; every shady path, or dingle entangled with underwood and fern."
2955,"He examines the countenance of his partner, comparing it carefully with that of each of his opponents."
2956,"He would return a purse, I am sure, upon discovering that he had obtained it by an unoriginal diddle."
2957,"During the five years of my residence here, I was never able to ascertain with precision, in what remote locality lay the little sleeping apartment assigned to myself and some eighteen or twenty other scholars."
2958,"When through some unavoidable oversight a cat was missed, and sounds heard after dark, the loser would lament impotently; or console himself by thanking Fate that it was not one of his children who had thus vanished."
2959,"Happy, happy earth Fit habitation for gods, which, so short a time before, was bleak, damp, and unwholesome."
2960,"I now raised up the hoop again within the covering of gum elastic, and propped it at nearly its former height by means of three light poles prepared for the occasion."
2961,"M. Krempe was a little squat man with a gruff voice and a repulsive countenance; the teacher, therefore, did not prepossess me in favour of his pursuits."
2962,"It was spotted all over, at irregular intervals, with arabesque figures, about a foot in diameter, and wrought upon the cloth in patterns of the most jetty black."
2963,"He accused me of melancholy, of ill humour and envy."
2964,"We were aged and weak from our drugs, dissipations, and nervous overstrain, and the thinning hair and beard of my friend had become snow white."
2965,"Has anything unpleasant happened since I saw you?"" ""No, massa, dey aint bin noffin unpleasant since den 'twas fore den I'm feared 'twas de berry day you was dare."""
2966,"These astounding words came on him as of less fearful import than those which he had expected; and to learn that she was still in being, and that he might still hope was an alleviation to him."
2967,You are a man to be missed.
2968,"Yet I should fail in any attempt to convey an idea of the exact character of the studies, or of the occupations, in which he involved me, or led me the way."
2969,"The vortex of thoughtless folly into which I there so immediately and so recklessly plunged, washed away all but the froth of my past hours, engulfed at once every solid or serious impression, and left to memory only the veriest levities of a former existence."
2970,My friend went on with his discourse.
2971,"image of automaton At the hour appointed for exhibition, a curtain is withdrawn, or folding doors are thrown open, and the machine rolled to within about twelve feet of the nearest of the spectators, between whom and it the machine a rope is stretched."
2972,"She also might turn with disgust from him to the superior beauty of man; she might quit him, and he be again alone, exasperated by the fresh provocation of being deserted by one of his own species."
2973,"Thus, in early day, she left us for the company of the dead, and preferred to share the rocky grave of Raymond, before the animated scene this cheerful earth afforded, and the society of loving friends."
2974,"To be sure, this composition was of no very great length but I ""have yet to learn"" as they say in the Edinburgh Review, that the mere extent of a literary work has any thing to do with its merit."
2975,"To be confronted in a place as thoroughly deserted as I had deemed the old castle with evidence of the presence of man or spirit, produced in my brain a horror of the most acute description."
2976,"He was a victim of physical and nervous suffering, as was I; and my metaphysical studies had taught me kindness."
2977,"""Yet I fear that the same feelings now exist that made you so miserable a year ago, even perhaps augmented by time."
2978,"Their faces expressed a mixture of curiosity and anger, which annoyed and in some degree alarmed me."
2979,"I considered the being whom I had cast among mankind, and endowed with the will and power to effect purposes of horror, such as the deed which he had now done, nearly in the light of my own vampire, my own spirit let loose from the grave, and forced to destroy all that was dear to me."
2980,"He could not really care for me, I thought, for if he did the storm would rather have made him come even if I had not expected him, than, as it did, prevent a promised visit."
2981,Did I ever in the wide world seek other than thee?
2982,"In the gardens of these cities are strange orchids, and perfumed lakes whose beds are of coral and amber."
2983,Will you be kind enough to write?
2984,"That he need not plunge into this destructive dissipation for the sake of disgusting me, and causing me to fly."
2985,The contour of his face was somewhat angular and harsh.
2986,These appearances in the right lobe were of comparatively recent date.
2987,"Then the bank defaulter remembered the picture, and suggested that it be viewed and filed for identification at police headquarters."
2988,"All attempts at logical inquiry resulted, indeed, in leaving me more sceptical than before."
2989,"""How? did you put any thing particular in it?"""
2990,"""A considerable period elapsed before I discovered one of the causes of the uneasiness of this amiable family: it was poverty, and they suffered that evil in a very distressing degree."
2991,"That storm, said men who had ventured down the mine shaft, had caused extensive caving in, and had completely closed the deep abyss which had created so much apprehension the day before."
2992,"When I thought of him I gnashed my teeth, my eyes became inflamed, and I ardently wished to extinguish that life which I had so thoughtlessly bestowed."
2993,The prospect seemed unbounded.
2994,"That tenuity in the comet which had previously inspired us with hope, was now the source of the bitterness of despair."
2995,"I want the damages at a thousand, but he says that for so simple a knock down we can't lay them at more than five hundred."
2996,"It was his surpassing beauty, the dazzling fire of his eyes, and his words whose rich accents wrapt the listener in mute and extactic wonder, that made him transcend all others so that before him they appeared only formed to minister to his superior excellence."
2997,"The ball had entered my shoulder, and I knew not whether it had remained there or passed through; at any rate I had no means of extracting it."
2998,"Its hills are covered with vines, and its cottages are scattered thickly in the plains."
2999,"Mine were an old people, and were old even when this land was settled three hundred years before."
3000,"This being you must create."""
3001,"Its brilliant flowers are the dearest of all unfulfilled dreams, and its raging volcanoes are the passions of the most turbulent and unhallowed of hearts."
3002,"Yet differently we grew I, ill of health, and buried in gloom she, agile, graceful, and overflowing with energy; hers, the ramble on the hill side mine the studies of the cloister; I, living within my own heart, and addicted, body and soul, to the most intense and painful meditation she, roaming carelessly through life, with no thought of the shadows in her path, or the silent flight of the raven winged hours."
3003,"All around him was cloud and chaos, and he could see nothing below but the whiteness of illimitable space."
3004,"""Like Sir George Cayley's balloon, his own was an ellipsoid."
3005,"Space belongs to me, do you hear?"
3006,"On the first approach of his disorder, he travelled about from one place to another; until, arriving at that romantic seclusion he refused to quit it, and we made arrangements with the Duke for his continuing there."""
3007,"Could he, for an instant, have supposed that, in my admonisher at Eton in the destroyer of my honor at Oxford, in him who thwarted my ambition at Rome, my revenge at Paris, my passionate love at Naples, or what he falsely termed my avarice in Egypt, that in this, my arch enemy and evil genius, could fail to recognise the William Wilson of my school boy days, the namesake, the companion, the rival, the hated and dreaded rival at Dr. Bransby's?"
3008,dripping death astride a Bacchanale of bats from night black ruins of buried temples of Belial. . . .
3009,"Wrap the drawing around it, and try the experiment again."""
3010,"I strived to decypher them, but in vain; while ever and anon, like the spirit of a departed sound, the shrill and piercing shriek of a female voice seemed to be ringing in my ears."
3011,"""Contradictories cannot both be true that is, cannot co exist in nature."""
3012,"I alone remained, riveted to my seat by a grovelling fear which I had never felt before."
3013,"It was clear that I had wandered from the road to the village, and I had thus good traveller's excuse to open the gate before me, and inquire my way, at all events; so, without more ado, I proceeded."
3014,"It has been observed, that, in balloon ascensions to any considerable height, besides the pain attending respiration, great uneasiness is experienced about the head and body, often accompanied with bleeding at the nose, and other symptoms of an alarming kind, and growing more and more inconvenient in proportion to the altitude attained."
3015,He would have been in too great haste for such things as securing a boat.
3016,The former was found securely fastened from within.
3017,At all events I undoubtedly beheld the whole of the earth's major diameter; the entire northern hemisphere lay beneath me like a chart orthographically projected: and the great circle of the equator itself formed the boundary line of my horizon.
3018,"He had appeared each evening, impatience and anger marked in his looks, scowling on us from the opposite side of St. Stephen's, as if his mere frown would cast eclipse on our hopes."
3019,"Almost eight feet tall, and carrying a cheap new valise from Osborn's general store, this dark and goatish gargoyle appeared one day in Arkham in quest of the dreaded volume kept under lock and key at the college library the hideous Necronomicon of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred in Olaus Wormius' Latin version, as printed in Spain in the seventeenth century."
3020,Yet there was something to be observed.
3021,"But as yet my soul had proved true to its vows, and the indications of the presence of Eleonora were still given me in the silent hours of the night."
3022,"But in regard to the immediate agency of the ruin, speculation had been at fault from that epoch in astronomical knowledge in which the comets were divested of the terrors of flame."
3023,"My generous friend reassured the suppliant, and on being informed of the name of her lover, instantly abandoned his pursuit."
3024,It had seemed to follow a whirring that was not of the old woman's spinning wheel.
3025,"Beware, for I am fearless and therefore powerful."
3026,"After a while there was utter blackness, and then the light of myriad stars forming strange, alien constellations."
3027,"The most reasonable conclusion is, that he wept himself to death."
3028,"Had the balloon remained a very short while longer within the cloud that is to say had not the inconvenience of getting wet, determined me to discharge the ballast, inevitable ruin would have been the consequence."
3029,Woodville had told me that there was in my countenance an expression as if I belonged to another world; so he had seen that sign: and there it lay a gloomy mark to tell the world that there was that within my soul that no silence could render sufficiently obscure.
3030,"He sat by her, he took her hand, and said a thousand things which breathed the deepest spirit of compassion and affection."
3031,"Yet we advanced slowly: sometimes I thought that we should never arrive; that the sound of waves would still allure us, and that we should walk on for ever and ever: field succeeding field, never would our weary journey cease, nor night nor day; but still we should hear the dashing of the sea, and to all this there would be no end."
3032,"Why, why should I doubt it?"
3033,"But, the thing done, the wonder accomplished, and the capacity for apprehension becomes universal."
3034,"It was not will that she wanted, but the capacity; again and again she declared, it were as easy to enchain the sea, to put reins on the wind's viewless courses, as for her to take truth for falsehood, deceit for honesty, heartless communion for sincere, confiding love."
3035,The first half of the principal manuscript told a very peculiar tale.
3036,"The handkerchief bore the name ""Marie Rogêt."""
3037,"""You remember;"" said he, ""the night when I handed you the rough sketch I had made of the scarabæus."
3038,"With Mr. Crab, as editor, and with such names upon the list of contributors as Snob and Slyass, there can be no such word as 'fail' for the Lollipop.'"
3039,"They did not appear rich, but they were contented and happy; their feelings were serene and peaceful, while mine became every day more tumultuous."
3040,Its principal feature seemed to be that of an excessive antiquity.
3041,"During my absence I should leave my friends unconscious of the existence of their enemy and unprotected from his attacks, exasperated as he might be by my departure."
3042,"Apparently Whateley had had no skull or bony skeleton; at least, in any true or stable sense."
3043,"The next night devils danced on the roofs of Arkham, and unnatural madness howled in the wind."
3044,"The results of this examination were not at first very enlightening, though our tabulation of them seemed to reveal a fairly significant trend; namely, that the number of reported horrors was by far the greatest in areas either comparatively near the avoided house or connected with it by stretches of the morbidly overnourished forest."
3045,And nevertheless it was done.
3046,I felt as if I were placed under a ban as if I had no right to claim their sympathies as if never more might I enjoy companionship with them.
3047,"Does he not on the contrary feel a freedom of will within him, which, though you may call it fallacious, still actuates him as he decides?"""
3048,"They had not been long married, and their eldest child was but just born."
3049,"He had not survived his return, said his wife, for the doings at sea in had broken him."
3050,"Gradually the object of fear sank beneath the horizon, and to the last shot up shadowy beams into the otherwise radiant air."
3051,"Small Romnod was now not so small, and spoke deeply instead of shrilly, though Iranon was always the same, and decked his golden hair with vines and fragrant resins found in the woods."
3052,"Well, Aries Tottle flourished supreme until advent of one Hog, surnamed the ""Ettrick Shepherd,"" who preached an entirely different system, which he called the a posteriori or inductive."
3053,"At all events, with my knapsack for a pillow, and my hound as a sentry, a bivouac in the open air was just the thing which would have amused me."
3054,"The truth is, that few individuals, in any line, did a snugger little business than I."
3055,"And in a few years more, men built cabins on the south side of The Street."
3056,"As the second landing was reached, these sounds, also, had ceased and everything remained perfectly quiet."
3057,"This central orb, however, dynamically, should have been greater than all its surrounding orbs taken together."
3058,"Nay, these are virtuous and immaculate beings I, the miserable and the abandoned, am an abortion, to be spurned at, and kicked, and trampled on."
3059,"But in the present case the question is of a dress, presenting but one edge."
3060,"The clatter at the northerly connecting door was now terrific, and I saw that the weak panelling was beginning to splinter."
3061,"Having descended, as I said before, to about one hundred feet from the surface of the earth, the little old gentleman was suddenly seized with a fit of trepidation, and appeared disinclined to make any nearer approach to terra firma."
3062,"I indeed perceptibly gained on it, and when, after nearly two days' journey, I beheld my enemy at no more than a mile distant, my heart bounded within me."
3063,"So Carter had tried to do as others did, and pretended that the common events and emotions of earthy minds were more important than the fantasies of rare and delicate souls."
3064,We perpetually made excursions together.
3065,"""This model which, through want of time, we have necessarily described in an imperfect manner, was put in action at the Adelaide Gallery, where it accomplished a velocity of five miles per hour; although, strange to say, it excited very little interest in comparison with the previous complex machine of Mr. Henson so resolute is the world to despise anything which carries with it an air of simplicity."
3066,but God I dare not tell you what I saw . . .
3067,"Entreating him, therefore, to remain a few minutes at the bottom of the stairs, I darted up towards my own room."
3068,"A favourite haunt of mine during the day was the ruined cellar of the mansion that had burned down, and in fancy I would picture the structure as it had been in its prime."
3069,"I raised his rigid limbs, I marked the distortion of his face, and the stony eyes lost to perception."
3070,"To one lie, first class, extra quality and size; recommended milled satinet as broadcloth...................... JULY ."
3071,"My beloved friends were alarmed nay, they expressed their alarm so anxiously, that I dared not pronounce the word plague, that hovered on my lips, lest they should construe my perturbed looks into a symptom, and see infection in my languor."
3072,"I was forced to fall back upon the unsatisfactory conclusion, that while, beyond doubt, there are combinations of very simple natural objects which have the power of thus affecting us, still the analysis of this power lies among considerations beyond our depth."
3073,But I was impatient to arrive at the termination of my journey.
3074,"As often happens, when such refusals are made, the practitioners resolved to disinter the body and dissect it at leisure, in private."
3075,"""As I live, there she is"" cried one."
3076,This thought creates.
3077,"Slaves' cries ascended from a scene of desolation, and no more amidst the olive grove rose the gleaming colonnades of that vast hall wherein Musides had dreamed and toiled."
3078,"As I waited there in expectation of that moment, I thought how, of the lovely flowers that grew there, I would wind myself a chaplet and crown myself for joy: I would sing sul margine d'un rio, my father's favourite song, and that my voice gliding through the windless air would announce to him in whatever bower he sat expecting the moment of our union, that his daughter was come."
3079,"When I had attained that point of the ravine in the mountains at which I had encountered the hyena, I again experienced a shock as of a galvanic battery, the sense of weight, of volition, of substance, returned."
3080,The attention is here called powerfully into play.
3081,"""I can hardly describe to you the effect of these books."
3082,"It was not for the rose of Persia thou wert famous, nor the banana of the east; not for the spicy gales of India, nor the sugar groves of America; not for thy vines nor thy double harvests, nor for thy vernal airs, nor solstitial sun but for thy children, their unwearied industry and lofty aspiration."
3083,"Though I knew that death was near, my curiosity was consuming; and I threw the searchlight's beam about in eager quest."
3084,"And it was wrought of one piece of ivory, though no man lives who knows whence so vast a piece could have come."
3085,"I leaned against the casement, and watched those two glorious creatures, till they disappeared in the forest glades; and then I turned."
3086,"A better kind of material, it appears, was subsequently found in the down surrounding the seed vessels of a plant vulgarly called euphorbium, and at that time botanically termed milk weed."
3087,It was an impossibility in a normal world.
3088,"It was pretty enough to see my sister enter as it were into the spirit of the drama, and endeavour to fill her station with becoming dignity."
3089,"'And one part,' too, 'was the hem of the frock' Another piece was 'part of the skirt, not the hem,' that is to say, was torn completely out through the agency of thorns, from the uncaged interior of the dress These, I say, are things which one may well be pardoned for disbelieving; yet, taken collectedly, they form, perhaps, less of reasonable ground for suspicion, than the one startling circumstance of the articles' having been left in this thicket at all, by any murderers who had enough precaution to think of removing the corpse."
3090,"He was barefooted and in his night clothes, and when he tried to walk discovered that he could scarcely lift his feet."
3091,"In the meantime I kept my eyes riveted on Madame Lalande, and at length had the good fortune to obtain a full front view of her face."
3092,The aperture was black with a darkness almost material.
3093,In the heart of Venice could I have erected a better?
3094,"With painful effort I outstretched my left arm as far as my bonds permitted, and took possession of the small remnant which had been spared me by the rats."
3095,"He was endeavouring to encourage his sister, and to bring her to look on his intent in a less tragic light than she was prepared to do; and with passionate eloquence he unfolded his designs to her. ""Let me, at the first word,"" he said, ""relieve your mind from all fear on my account."
3096,"I not only neglected, but ill used them."
3097,"It can, though, do a lot of harm; so we mustn't hesitate to rid the community of it."
3098,"I was hurt by the careless tone with which he conveyed this information, and replied coldly: ""I am obliged to you for your intelligence, and will avail myself of it."""
3099,"Look at his thought endued countenance, his graceful limbs, his majestic brow, his wondrous mechanism the type and model of this best work of God is not to be cast aside as a broken vessel he shall be preserved, and his children and his children's children carry down the name and form of man to latest time."
3100,Amazement now struggled in my bosom with the profound awe which had hitherto reigned there alone.
3101,"Long years have since elapsed, and my memory is feeble through much suffering."
3102,How are we to know that the articles found in the drawers were not all these drawers had originally contained?
3103,"It was I who thought of the deserted Chapman farmhouse beyond Meadow Hill, where we fitted up on the ground floor an operating room and a laboratory, each with dark curtains to conceal our midnight doings."
3104,Distinction and station were not the qualifications of their election.
3105,One of them struck me upon the right temple.
3106,"It will be necessary for a proper understanding of the subject, that we repeat here in a few words, the routine adopted by the exhibiter in disclosing the interior of the box a routine from which he never deviates in any material particular."
3107,"The second impression which she made on me, but by far the more vivid of the two, was that of enthusiasm."
3108,"It seemed as if many bulging, watery, unwinking eyes looked oddly at me as I claimed my valise in the lobby, and I hoped that none of these unpleasant creatures would be my fellow passengers on the coach."
3109,They were long and loud very awful and distressing.
3110,"Such for three days and nights appeared the consummation which fate had decreed for my labours, and I became haggard and spectre like, through anxiety and watching."
3111,There are numerous other mathematical truths which are only truths within the limits of relation.
3112,"Books and paintings and music came to the houses, and the young men went to the university which rose above the plain to the north."
3113,"""O Aira, city of marble and beryl, how many are thy beauties How loved I the warm and fragrant groves across the hyaline Nithra, and the falls of the tiny Kra that flowed through the verdant valley In those groves and in that vale the children wove wreaths for one another, and at dusk I dreamed strange dreams under the yath trees on the mountain as I saw below me the lights of the city, and the curving Nithra reflecting a ribbon of stars."
3114,"My dream was for ever in my thoughts, and with a kind of half insanity that often possesses the mind in despair, I said aloud; ""Courage We are not near the sea; we are yet several miles from the ocean"" Yet it was towards the sea that our direction lay and that heightened the confusion of my ideas."
3115,"I have myself been blasted in these hopes, yet another may succeed."""
3116,Let us leave the city Teloth and fare together among the hills of spring.
3117,"He was, perhaps, six feet in height, and of a presence singularly commanding."
3118,"The specimen, as West repeatedly observed, had a splendid nervous system."
3119,"Presently I saw the young man again, with some tools in his hand, cross the field behind the cottage; and the girl was also busied, sometimes in the house and sometimes in the yard."
3120,"You will find that the discovery followed, almost immediately, the urgent communications sent to the evening paper."
3121,"Yet this is not it I do not intend to entrap you with questions one will suffice am I completely a wretch?"""
3122,"They were as furtive and seldom seen as animals that live in burrows, and one could hardly imagine how they passed the time apart from their desultory fishing."
3123,One of the most remarkable instances was that of the murder of a young girl named Marie Rogêt.
3124,"In pursuance of this idea, he pushed open the door gently but the room was inhabited."
3125,"He mounted a fiery horse, that which had borne him forward to victory in Greece; he fatigued himself with deadening exercise, losing the pangs of a troubled mind in animal sensation."
3126,I am burning with anxiety to hear the details of that stupendous event which threw you among us.
3127,"Neither knew what to make of the whole chaotic business, and decided it would be better if they thought as little as possible about it."
3128,"""For it will be the same with thee, who art called our Universal Mother, when I am gone."
3129,"The entrance of Macbeth did not destroy the illusion, for he was actuated by the same feelings that inspired us, and while the work of magic proceeded we sympathized in his wonder and his daring, and gave ourselves up with our whole souls to the influence of scenic delusion."
3130,Any man is a dolt who permits a 'secret' drawer to escape him in a search of this kind.
3131,"West had soon learned that absolute freshness was the prime requisite for useful specimens, and had accordingly resorted to frightful and unnatural expedients in body snatching."
3132,"Eventually Jermyn asked and obtained permission to train the animal, astonishing audiences and fellow performers alike with his success."
3133,"I could not however at that time feel remorse, for methought I was born anew; my soul threw off the burthen of past sin, to commence a new career in innocence and love."
3134,"A wind swept across the plain, I looked around me and saw no object that told me where I was; I had lost myself, and in vain attempted to find my path."
3135,Then came the first scratching and fumbling at the dormer window that looked out high above the other roofs of the city.
3136,"MANY years ago, it was the fashion to ridicule the idea of ""love at first sight;"" but those who think, not less than those who feel deeply, have always advocated its existence."
3137,"While life was strong within me I thought indeed that there was a sacred horror in my tale that rendered it unfit for utterance, and now about to die I pollute its mystic terrors."
3138,"She floated again from out the light and into the gloom which deepened momently and again her shadow fell from her into the ebony water, and became absorbed into its blackness."
3139,"On the other hand, there was much cause for anxiety as to what it might do in the house."
3140,"""It was evening when I arrived, and I retired to a hiding place among the fields that surround it to meditate in what manner I should apply to you."
3141,But these dreams were not altogether uninterrupted.
3142,Ordinarily he was true to the derelict type ready to do anything for a nickel or a dose of whiskey or hasheesh but at rare intervals he shewed the traits which earned him his name.
3143,"Wilbur was growing up uncannily, so that he looked like a boy of ten as he entered his fourth year."
3144,"The sight seemed to displease him, for he began a series of weak curses which ended in a confidential whisper and a knowing leer."
3145,"We are now prepared to view a second elopement if we know that an elopement has again taken place as indicating a renewal of the betrayer's advances, rather than as the result of new proposals by a second individual we are prepared to regard it as a 'making up' of the old amour, rather than as the commencement of a new one."
3146,"Beings must have cared for my needs, yet I cannot recall any person except myself; or anything alive but the noiseless rats and bats and spiders."
3147,"After I saw that he was no longer in the boat I threw the searchlight around the water in an effort to obtain a last glimpse of him; since I wished to ascertain whether the water pressure would flatten him as it theoretically should, or whether the body would be unaffected, like those extraordinary dolphins."
3148,"Your favourite schoolfellow, Louis Manoir, has suffered several misfortunes since the departure of Clerval from Geneva."
3149,"Dogs abhorred the boy, and he was always obliged to take various defensive measures against their barking menace."
3150,My passions are my masters; my smallest impulse my tyrant.
3151,There were also some curious muddy rat tracks leading out of a fresh hole and back into it again.
3152,"She sometimes begged Justine to forgive her unkindness, but much oftener accused her of having caused the deaths of her brothers and sister."
3153,"Yon dark, gloomy niche, too, yawns right opposite her chamber window what, then, could there be in its shadows in its architecture in its ivy wreathed and solemn cornices that the Marchesa di Mentoni had not wondered at a thousand times before?"
3154,"We retired about eleven, but I did not sleep well."
3155,It must be thus and not otherwise.
3156,"It had often occurred, that, when, as I said, Raymond quitted Perdita's drawing room, Clara came up to me, and gently drawing me aside, said, ""Papa is gone; shall we go to him?"
3157,"The sophists of the negative school who, through inability to create, have scoffed at creation, are now found the loudest in applause."
3158,"All in the band of the faithful Order o' Dagon an' the children shud never die, but go back to the Mother Hydra an' Father Dagon what we all come from onct Iä Iä Cthulhu fhtagn Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah nagl fhtagn "" Old Zadok was fast lapsing into stark raving, and I held my breath."
3159,"By means of this I was descending rapidly, and in apparent safety, when a huge hog, about whose rotund stomach, and indeed about whose whole air and physiognomy, there was something which reminded me of the Angel of the Odd, when this hog, I say, which hitherto had been quietly slumbering in the mud, took it suddenly into his head that his left shoulder needed scratching, and could find no more convenient rubbing post than that afforded by the foot of the ladder."
3160,"These reduced me at once to submission, and I am almost ashamed to confess that either through pain or vexation, there came a few tears into my eyes."
3161,"I think Professor Angell died because he knew too much, or because he was likely to learn too much."
3162,"No voice was heard telling us to hold When foreign distresses came to be felt by us through the channels of commerce, we set ourselves to apply remedies."
3163,"He must have been astonished at our conclave, disturbed by it I should have thought; but nothing of this appeared; he saluted my companions, and addressed me with a cordial greeting."
3164,I could no longer doubt the doom prepared for me by monkish ingenuity in torture.
3165,Some unknown circumstance now induced his mother to send him from under her immediate tutelage; and we heard that he was about to visit Cumberland.
3166,"The ammonia ceased to drip, and as I cleaned up what had spilled and opened the window for air, I heard the landlady's heavy footsteps above me."
3167,"Of this sad change he seemed by no means unaware, and little by little his expression and conversation both took on a gruesome irony which restored in me something of the subtle repulsion I had originally felt."
3168,"But, in spite of these things, it was a gay and magnificent revel."
3169,"They were his pictures, you know the ones he couldn't paint or even shew in Newbury Street and he was right when he said he had ""let himself go""."
3170,"Red tongues of flame and searing gusts of heat engulfed the house; and the roysterers, struck with terror at the descent of a calamity which seemed to transcend the bounds of unguided Nature, fled shrieking into the night."
3171,The house of Jermyn no longer existed.
3172,"I dispute, in particular, the reason educed by mathematical study."
3173,As a duellist he had acquired who had fallen at his hands; but they were many.
3174,"Being without superstition, he did not heed the day at all; though ever afterward he refused to do anything of importance on that fateful sixth day of the week."
3175,"We have then the primitive arrangement of the earth's surface adapted to his blissful estate, as not existent but designed."
3176,"It was between six and seven o'clock, a fine summer afternoon, and I spent my leisure hours in a ramble through the empty streets of London; now turning to avoid an approaching funeral, now urged by curiosity to observe the state of a particular spot; my wanderings were instinct with pain, for silence and desertion characterized every place I visited, and the few beings I met were so pale and woe begone, so marked with care and depressed by fear, that weary of encountering only signs of misery, I began to retread my steps towards home."
3177,"My daily vows rose for revenge a deep and deadly revenge, such as would alone compensate for the outrages and anguish I had endured."
3178,"The Emma, in ballast, had cleared Auckland on February th, and had felt the full force of that earthquake born tempest which must have heaved up from the sea bottom the horrors that filled men's dreams."
3179,"I spoke a few hurried but energetic words to my companions, and, having succeeded in gaining over a few of them to my purpose made a frantic sally from the kiosk."
3180,"How altered every thing might be during that time One sudden and desolating change had taken place; but a thousand little circumstances might have by degrees worked other alterations, which, although they were done more tranquilly, might not be the less decisive."
3181,"Professor Krempe often asked me, with a sly smile, how Cornelius Agrippa went on, whilst M. Waldman expressed the most heartfelt exultation in my progress."
3182,When I came home at night my valet proposed to give me a flogging.
3183,"By the bye, Monsieur, did I understand you to say that the system you have adopted, in place of the celebrated soothing system, was one of very rigorous severity?"""
3184,"Driving a peg, with great nicety, into the ground, at the precise spot where the beetle fell, my friend now produced from his pocket a tape measure."
3185,As to the nature of our studies must I say again that I no longer retain full comprehension?
3186,In the deepest slumber no In delirium no In a swoon no In death no even in the grave all is not lost.
3187,It would be well not to make oneself too conspicuous in such neighbourhoods especially north of the river since the people were sullen and hostile.
3188,"The numerous deep gorges presented the appearance of lakes, on account of the dense vapors with which they were filled, and the pinnacles and crags to the South East, piled in inextricable confusion, resembling nothing so much as the giant cities of eastern fable."
3189,"They's prints in the rud, Mis' Corey great raound prints as big as barrel heads, all sunk daown deep like a elephant had ben along, only they's a sight more nor four feet could make I looked at one or two afore I run, an' I see every one was covered with lines spreadin' aout from one place, like as if big palm leaf fans twict or three times as big as any they is hed of ben paounded daown into the rud."
3190,I revolved rapidly in my mind a multitude of thoughts and endeavoured to arrive at some conclusion.
3191,"If the worst befell; if she learnt the truth, he would neither stand her reproaches, or the anguish of her altered looks."
3192,"His warehouse was the resort of all the principal people of the place, and especially of the editorial corps a body which inspires all about it with profound veneration and awe."
3193,"It was soon after dark, upon this same evening, that Madame Deluc, as well as her eldest son, heard the screams of a female in the vicinity of the inn."
3194,"I therefore, after due deliberation, consigned the article to the more dignified pages of the ""Lollipop,"" and awaited the event in anxiety, but with resignation."
3195,Mr. Czanek had never before noticed the colour of that man's eyes; now he saw that they were yellow.
3196,"With considerable difficulty we scrambled up, and came to another passage with still more of illumination, and this led to another ascent like the former."
3197,"My life, as it passed thus, was indeed hateful to me, and it was during sleep alone that I could taste joy."
3198,"Idris was as the star, set in single splendour in the dim anadem of balmy evening; ready to enlighten and delight the subject world, shielded herself from every taint by her unimagined distance from all that was not like herself akin to heaven."
3199,"Dr. Johnson was second to no Man in the Pains he took to revise the bad Verses of others; indeed, 'tis said that in the book of poor blind old Mrs. Williams, there are scarce two lines which are not the Doctor's."
3200,"The senses were unusually active, although eccentrically so assuming often each other's functions at random."
3201,"At a period when such vagaries of thought most fully possessed me, and when we had been at work perhaps an hour and a half, we were again interrupted by the violent howlings of the dog."
3202,"His astronomical theories absorbed him; calculations were scrawled with coal on the bare walls of his garret: a hard earned guinea, or an article of dress, was exchanged for a book without remorse; he neither heard his children cry, nor observed his companion's emaciated form, and the excess of calamity was merely to him as the occurrence of a cloudy night, when he would have given his right hand to observe a celestial phenomenon."
3203,"We entered the gloomy prison chamber and beheld Justine sitting on some straw at the farther end; her hands were manacled, and her head rested on her knees."
3204,"One need not describe the kind and rate of shrinkage and disintegration that occurred before the eyes of Dr. Armitage and Professor Rice; but it is permissible to say that, aside from the external appearance of face and hands, the really human element in Wilbur Whateley must have been very small."
3205,"Accordingly my watches by the dank portal became less persistent, and much of my time was spent in other though equally strange pursuits."
3206,"Sometimes I sat with my eyes fixed on the ground, fearing to raise them lest they should encounter the object which I so much dreaded to behold."
3207,Our rate could not have been less than eight knots.
3208,"There must have been prodigious reserves of strength in the old man to enable him to accomplish so much hard labour; and though he still babbled dementedly at times, his carpentry seemed to shew the effects of sound calculation."
3209,"His pleas, however, were wholly in vain; for the decision of Dr. Halsey was inflexible, and the other professors all endorsed the verdict of their leader."
3210,"Now this Calculus is, in its essence, purely mathematical; and thus we have the anomaly of the most rigidly exact in science applied to the shadow and spirituality of the most intangible in speculation."
3211,"If I ventured to enquire he would either leave me or press his finger on his lips, and with a deprecating look that I could not resist, turn away."
3212,As I returned my fervent hopes were dashed by so many fears; my impatience became in the highest degree painful.
3213,"When I thought of my friends, of the mild voice of De Lacey, the gentle eyes of Agatha, and the exquisite beauty of the Arabian, these thoughts vanished and a gush of tears somewhat soothed me."
3214,"Don't know, eh? You'll know soon enough Look at me listen to what I say do you suppose there are really any such things as time and magnitude?"
3215,Of wild creatures there were none they are wise when death leers close.
3216,The latter could not be improved.
3217,"Beyond all things, I have been warned of the danger which would result from giving him reason to suspect our design."""
3218,"Inside was a little vestibule with walls from which the plaster was falling, and through the doorway came a faint but peculiarly hateful odour."
3219,"""Do you then intend, now in time of peril, to recede from your duties?"" ""Duties speak rationally, my Lord when I am a plague spotted corpse, where will my duties be?"
3220,You would not if you saw him.
3221,"The ""soothing system,"" with important modifications, has been resumed at the chateau; yet I cannot help agreeing with Monsieur Maillard, that his own ""treatment"" was a very capital one of its kind."
3222,"But he had promised to follow me wherever I might go, and would he not accompany me to England?"
3223,"Pronounced well by his physician, he returned to his quarters in three days; but to Professor Angell he was of no further assistance."
3224,"His paroxisms of passion were terrific but his soul bore him through them triumphant, though almost destroyed by victory; but the day would finally have been won had not I, foolish and presumtuous wretch hurried him on untill there was no recall, no hope."
3225,"Casting my eyes upwards, I beheld a spectacle which froze the current of my blood."
3226,"The Automaton Chess Player was invented in , by Baron Kempelen, a nobleman of Presburg, in Hungary, who afterwards disposed of it, together with the secret of its operations, to its present possessor."
3227,"Very odd and ugly were these beings, as indeed are most beings of a world yet inchoate and rudely fashioned."
3228,"""He is coming"" said somebody on the staircase."
3229,"Shou'd my present Recollections meet with Favour, I might later set down some further Anecdotes of old Times of which I am the only Survivor."
3230,"The windows of the room had before been darkened, and I felt a kind of panic on seeing the pale yellow light of the moon illuminate the chamber."
3231,"Not even these well contrived securities sufficed to save from the uttermost agonies of living inhumation, a wretch to these agonies foredoomed There arrived an epoch as often before there had arrived in which I found myself emerging from total unconsciousness into the first feeble and indefinite sense of existence."
3232,I had spent the better part of the morning in climbing up and down half ruined staircases in one of the most dilapidated of the ancient turrets.
3233,"He refused; intimating that it was of the most vital importance for him to complete the reading of the diary, and promising an explanation in due course of time."
3234,"Following Washington Street toward the river, I now faced a new zone of former industry and commerce; noting the ruins of a factory ahead, and seeing others, with the traces of an old railway station and covered railway bridge beyond, up the gorge on my right."
3235,"I grasped his hand, and in a moment forgot my horror and misfortune; I felt suddenly, and for the first time during many months, calm and serene joy."
3236,"To every request, a positive ""No"" was his immediate answer, but in the end in the long, long end there were exceedingly few requests which he refused."
3237,"The crime had its source in her; be hers the punishment Thanks to the lessons of Felix and the sanguinary laws of man, I had learned now to work mischief."
3238,"While I still hung over her in the agony of despair, I happened to look up."
3239,"Of my own race I was permitted to learn singularly little, yet what small knowledge of it I was able to gain, seemed to depress me much."
3240,Suddenly I became as it were the father of all mankind.
3241,"This behavior on the part of my eye in the gutter was not only irritating on account of its manifest insolence and shameful ingratitude, but was also exceedingly inconvenient on account of the sympathy which always exists between two eyes of the same head, however far apart."
3242,"""Entirely,"" said the Prefect."
3243,Whereupon the whole company maintained a dead silence for nearly a minute.
3244,"The radiance was that of the full, setting, and blood red moon, which now shone vividly through that once barely discernible fissure, of which I have before spoken as extending from the roof of the building, in a zigzag direction, to the base."
3245,"Many times came bands of blue coated police to search the shaky houses, though at last they ceased to come; for they too had grown tired of law and order, and had abandoned all the city to its fate."
3246,"Yes, fairest and best beloved Una, ""born again."""
3247,"Look at him ha I see plague She has invested his form, is incarnate in his flesh, has entwined herself with his being, and blinds his heaven seeking eyes."
3248,The arrival of the Arabian now infused new life into his soul.
3249,"We made the best of it, and passed the night on board."
3250,The hearts of the stoutest of our race beat violently within their bosoms.
3251,"And she knew all this, but did not upbraid; she seemed conscious of my weakness or my folly, and, smiling, called it fate."
3252,"It was not that I feared to look upon things horrible, but that I grew aghast lest there should be nothing to see."
3253,"""Yesterday indeed you are out"" UNCLE."
3254,"""The region of which I speak is a dreary region in Libya, by the borders of the river Zaire."
3255,He was propped up in the bed by pillows.
3256,"""Thirteen"" said he. ""Der Teufel"" gasped the little old gentlemen, turning pale, dropping their pipes, and putting down all their right legs from over their left knees."
3257,"Having thus inserted a portion of the cloth forming the upper part of the bag, I refastened the loops not to the hoop, for that would have been impossible, since the cloth now intervened but to a series of large buttons, affixed to the cloth itself, about three feet below the mouth of the bag, the intervals between the buttons having been made to correspond to the intervals between the loops."
3258,I have no suspicion of this person; but let us proceed methodically.
3259,"Kuranes had previously entered that abyss only at night, and wondered what it would look like by day; so he watched anxiously as the column approached its brink."
3260,"Then old Sam Hutchins thought of something and turned pale, nudging Fred Farr and pointing to the dank, deep hollow that yawned close by."
3261,"Or would my brother rather devote the heart broken Perdita to the straw and chains of a maniac, than suffer her to rest in peace beneath the shadow of His society, in this my own selected and beloved recess?"""
3262,"Meantime the cabbages all turned very red in the face, and it seemed as if old Nick himself had taken possession of every thing in the shape of a timepiece."
3263,"This was a dire blow to poor Elizabeth, who had relied with firmness upon Justine's innocence."
3264,I did not receive the expected message from the captain for nearly a week.
3265,Such acts were not wanting to adorn the grim train that waited on the progress of the plague.
3266,"I have spent days and nights of festivity; I have joined in ambitious hopes, and exulted in victory: now, shut the door on the world, and build high the wall that is to separate me from the troubled scene enacted within its precincts."
3267,During the day the patient regained consciousness at times and whispered his newest dream disjointedly to Elwood.
3268,"One of them was crumbling down at the top, and in that and another there were only black gaping holes where clock dials should have been."
3269,"After a time the fascination of the red radiance overcame my fright, and I crept to the east window and looked out whilst the maddening, incessant piping whined and reverberated through the castle and over all the village."
3270,Soon afterward Earl Sawyer told the loungers at Osborn's that more carpentry was going on in the Whateley farmhouse.
3271,"Then I thought with a shudder of what old Castro had told Legrasse about the primal Great Ones: ""They had come from the stars, and had brought Their images with Them."""
3272,"""On the spot which I intended each of the smaller casks to occupy respectively during the inflation of the balloon, I privately dug a hole two feet deep; the holes forming in this manner a circle twenty five feet in diameter."
3273,"It was just seven, by my watch, when we weighed and started for home, so as to make the worst of the Ström at slack water, which we knew would be at eight."
3274,"They were forever ardent and craving; still I desired love and fellowship, and I was still spurned."
3275,It will be proper that I submit to the reader some passages which embody the suggestion alluded to.
3276,"And this is indeed the more necessary, as with the hope of enlisting public sympathy in behalf of the inhabitants, I design here to give a history of the calamitous events which have so lately occurred within its limits."
3277,"On the other hand, the picturesque possibilities were enormous."
3278,"Finally a young man named Vercellius, the son of pure Roman parents, agreed to take us at least past the foothills."
3279,"I hastened to prevent an intrusion, and then immediately returned to my dying antagonist."
3280,To this day there is something queer and unholy about the growths on and around that fearsome hill.
3281,"I shall expect your return by to morrow noon."""
3282,"As it was, I assumed the cryptograph to be English."
3283,"The mower's scythe was at times heard; yet the joyless haymakers after they had listlessly turned the grass, forgot to cart it; the shepherd, when he had sheared his sheep, would let the wool lie to be scattered by the winds, deeming it useless to provide clothing for another winter."
3284,"M. Valdemar, who has resided principally at Harlaem, N.Y., since the year , is or was particularly noticeable for the extreme spareness of his person his lower limbs much resembling those of John Randolph; and, also, for the whiteness of his whiskers, in violent contrast to the blackness of his hair the latter, in consequence, being very generally mistaken for a wig."
3285,"I shall become a wanderer, a miserable outcast alone alone"" In another part of the letter he mentioned me ""As for that unhappy little being whom I could not see, and hardly dare mention, I leave her under your protection."
3286,"Who are you, pray, that I, Duc De L'Omelette, Prince de Foie Gras, just come of age, author of the 'Mazurkiad,' and Member of the Academy, should divest myself at your bidding of the sweetest pantaloons ever made by Bourdon, the daintiest robe de chambre ever put together by Rombert to say nothing of the taking my hair out of paper not to mention the trouble I should have in drawing off my gloves?"""
3287,"The river swollen by autumnal rains, deluged the low lands, and Adrian in his favourite boat is employed in the dangerous pastime of plucking the topmost bough from a submerged oak."
3288,The scene of the two outrages will naturally be supposed identical.
3289,"He did not employ the music rack, but offering no choice and playing from memory, enchanted me for over an hour with strains I had never heard before; strains which must have been of his own devising."
3290,"One only condition I would make, that you do nothing without his concurrence."""
3291,I passed three days in these rambles and at length discovered the open country.
3292,"But if the vicinity of the city is so beset during the working days of the week, how much more so on the Sabbath It is now especially that, released from the claims of labor, or deprived of the customary opportunities of crime, the town blackguard seeks the precincts of the town, not through love of the rural, which in his heart he despises, but by way of escape from the restraints and conventionalities of society."
3293,Mr. L l the student swooned.
3294,"In , as a Captain in Rhode Island forces in New Jersey under Colonel Angell, he met and married Phebe Hetfield of Elizabethtown, whom he brought to Providence upon his honourable discharge in the following year."
3295,"But it's all cum ob do bug."""
3296,This I learned at once from newspaper accounts of the catastrophe which first brought the region to the world's notice.
3297,Even now I cannot recollect without passion my reveries while the work was incomplete.
3298,"heh, heh, heh Matt Eliot was a Mason an' agin' the sellin', but he dropped aout o' sight jest then."
3299,"Shall two years more be thus passed, each day adding to our alienation, each act being another stone piled on the barrier which separates us?"
3300,"A gigantic monster, they said, had arrived the night before, armed with a gun and many pistols, putting to flight the inhabitants of a solitary cottage through fear of his terrific appearance."
3301,"A large mirror, so at first it seemed to me in my confusion now stood where none had been perceptible before; and, as I stepped up to it in extremity of terror, mine own image, but with features all pale and dabbled in blood, advanced to meet me with a feeble and tottering gait."
3302,It was late in the afternoon when we reached it; as this quarter is at a great distance from that in which we resided.
3303,"Thus speaking, and having carefully shaded his lamp, he hurried to one of the casements, and threw it freely open to the storm."
3304,Yet to calculate is not in itself to analyse.
3305,"In a solitary chamber, or rather cell, at the top of the house, and separated from all the other apartments by a gallery and staircase, I kept my workshop of filthy creation; my eyeballs were starting from their sockets in attending to the details of my employment."
3306,"""I remember the twilight, the moon, and soft songs, and the window where I was rocked to sleep."
3307,"The two cusps appeared tapering in a very sharp faint prolongation, each exhibiting its farthest extremity faintly illuminated by the solar rays, before any part of the dark hemisphere was visible."
3308,Let it be one of our first purposes to discover.
3309,"Upon my taking hold of it, it gave me a sharp bite, which caused me to let it drop."
3310,"They know it's a goin' aout, an' dun't calc'late to miss it."
3311,"I found, upon trial, that the powers of utterance which, upon my inability to proceed in the conversation with my wife, I then concluded to be totally destroyed, were in fact only partially impeded, and I discovered that had I, at that interesting crisis, dropped my voice to a singularly deep guttural, I might still have continued to her the communication of my sentiments; this pitch of voice the guttural depending, I find, not upon the current of the breath, but upon a certain spasmodic action of the muscles of the throat."
3312,"I communed in this manner with myself, but I was silent to all around me."
3313,"The soldiers were the fifth cohort of the XIIth legion, under the military tribune Sex."
3314,"I was the only one who came back that night to the old fishing town as legend bade, for only the poor and the lonely remember."
3315,"We met no one on the road, but presently began to pass deserted farms in varying stages of ruin."
3316,Only poetry or madness could do justice to the noises heard by Legrasse's men as they ploughed on through the black morass toward the red glare and the muffled tom toms.
3317,"I knew my silence disquieted them, and I well remembered the words of my father: ""I know that while you are pleased with yourself you will think of us with affection, and we shall hear regularly from you."
3318,For God is but a great will pervading all things by nature of its intentness.
3319,"As he went, he bought a basket of costly fruits, such as were natives of her own country, and throwing over these various beautiful flowers, bore it himself to the miserable garret of his friend."
3320,"I left the room, and locking the door, made a solemn vow in my own heart never to resume my labours; and then, with trembling steps, I sought my own apartment."
3321,"Extremists sometimes said the house was ""unlucky"", but that is as far as even they went."
3322,"It was a long dog trot to the ruined station, and the great brick warehouse walls around me seemed somehow more terrifying than the fronts of private houses."
3323,"Reared by a Mexican cattle thief who had given him his name, Juan differed little from his fellows."
3324,"The result of the natural style of gardening, is seen rather in the absence of all defects and incongruities in the prevalence of a beautiful harmony and order, than in the creation of any special wonders or miracles."
3325,"Study had before secluded me from the intercourse of my fellow creatures, and rendered me unsocial; but Clerval called forth the better feelings of my heart; he again taught me to love the aspect of nature, and the cheerful faces of children."
3326,"I desire the company of a man who could sympathize with me, whose eyes would reply to mine."
3327,"I lingered awhile, desirous of taking leave of Perdita, and from my window observed the approach of the sun."
3328,"And although I could not consent to go and hear that little conceited fellow deliver sentences out of a pulpit, I recollected what he had said of M. Waldman, whom I had never seen, as he had hitherto been out of town."
3329,Among the agonies of these after days is that chief of torments inarticulateness.
3330,He wishes to prove that Marie is not assassinated not that the corpse was not.
3331,"This, of course, was a matter of little consequence; for had I even been able to place a window at top, the balloon itself would have prevented my making any use of it."
3332,"These then were the preparations for a battle, nay, the battle itself; far different from any thing the imagination had pictured."
3333,"""It was the fruiterer,"" replied my friend, ""who brought you to the conclusion that the mender of soles was not of sufficient height for Xerxes et id genus omne."""
3334,"We must not regard it as a quality, but as a sentiment: it is the perception, in thinking beings, of the adaptation of matter to their organization."
3335,"But when we consider the arrangement of the candles, another reason immediately presents itself."
3336,The crowd had departed.
3337,"The busy stage of life, the virtues of heroes, and the actions of men were his theme; and his hope and his dream was to become one among those whose names are recorded in story as the gallant and adventurous benefactors of our species."
3338,What could he be dreaming of?
3339,"""For its practical value it depends upon this,"" replied Dupin; ""and the Prefect and his cohort fail so frequently, first, by default of this identification, and, secondly, by ill admeasurement, or rather through non admeasurement, of the intellect with which they are engaged."
3340,"He was a penny a liner, and a buffoon."
3341,"So The Street drank in the dreams of a young people, and rejoiced as its dwellers became more graceful and happy."
3342,"Tell me, Lionel, do you consent that I should marry this young lady?"""
3343,"I had been scrambling in this way for some time, so that my battery had burned very low, when the passage suddenly inclined sharply upward, altering my mode of progress."
3344,"The words and beliefs expressed ten weeks before seemed bodied forth in the darkness beyond the small circle of candle light, and I sickened at the hollow, altered voice of my host."
3345,"""Up thar in the rud beyont the glen, Mis' Corey they's suthin' ben thar It smells like thunder, an' all the bushes an' little trees is pushed back from the rud like they'd a haouse ben moved along of it."
3346,"Haow'd ye like to be livin' in a taown like this, with everything a rottin' an' a dyin', an' boarded up monsters crawlin' an' bleatin' an' barkin' an' hoppin' araoun' black cellars an' attics every way ye turn?"
3347,"Wanting the radiant lustre of her eyes, letters, lambent and golden, grew duller than Saturnian lead."
3348,"It was surely that I might fulfil my destiny, which is now drawing to a close."
3349,The debate had ended at three in the morning.
3350,"We had many pitched battles, during which no word was spoken, hardly a look was interchanged, but in which each resolved not to submit to the other."
3351,"""I am now awaiting,"" continued he, looking toward the door of our apartment ""I am now awaiting a person who, although perhaps not the perpetrator of these butcheries, must have been in some measure implicated in their perpetration."
3352,"The eulogies of Mr. Crab, such was the editor's name, were, however, by no means fulsomely indiscriminate."
3353,"They and their subconscious residuum had influenced his art profoundly, and he shewed me a morbid statue whose contours almost made me shake with the potency of its black suggestion."
3354,At one period I thought he really intended to quack.
3355,"As it was, we hoped desperately that the storm would last until well after dark; and with that hope turned from our aimless hillside searching toward the nearest inhabited hamlet to gather a body of squatters as helpers in the investigation."
3356,Diana was fully worthy of his deepest affection.
3357,Oh fie Cast off this blank look of human melancholy.
3358,"It is not the engagement, but the severe cold with which I perceive you are afflicted."
3359,"It was this: or, rather, thus was it carried into execution."
3360,Evening approached and I beheld the sun set.
3361,Each is sure that it was not the voice of one of his own countrymen.
3362,Compromised the case of Mr. Snap.
3363,"I thought with a sensation of madness on my promise of creating another like to him, and trembling with passion, tore to pieces the thing on which I was engaged."
3364,"""This then,"" I said thoughtfully, ""is the very reason why the waters of this lake grow blacker with age, and more melancholy as the hours run on."""
3365,"Death snatches away many blooming children, the only hopes of their doting parents; how many brides and youthful lovers have been one day in the bloom of health and hope, and the next a prey for worms and the decay of the tomb Of what materials was I made that I could thus resist so many shocks, which, like the turning of the wheel, continually renewed the torture?"
3366,Great God would it one day be thus?
3367,"Iä R'lyeh Cthulhu fhtagn Iä Iä No, I shall not shoot myself I cannot be made to shoot myself I shall plan my cousin's escape from that Canton madhouse, and together we shall go to marvel shadowed Innsmouth."
3368,"There are no dreams in Aidenn but it is here whispered that, of this infinity of matter, the sole purpose is to afford infinite springs, at which the soul may allay the thirst to know, which is for ever unquenchable within it since to quench it, would be to extinguish the soul's self."
3369,"If humanly possible, I would use it; if not, I would have to risk more street wandering and take the nearest intact highway bridge."
3370,"There is something fearful in one who can thus conquer the animal part of our nature, if the victory be not the effect of consummate virtue; nor was it without a mixture of this feeling, that I beheld the figure of the Countess awake when others slept, fasting when I, abstemious naturally, and rendered so by the fever that preyed on me, was forced to recruit myself with food."
3371,"Hours passed, while in this scene of ruin I sought for Raymond."
3372,"He would shout that the world was in danger, since the Elder Things wished to strip it and drag it away from the solar system and cosmos of matter into some other plane or phase of entity from which it had once fallen, vigintillions of aeons ago."
3373,"End of Text Notes to Hans Pfaal NOTE Strictly speaking, there is but little similarity between the above sketchy trifle and the celebrated ""Moon Story"" of Mr. Locke; but as both have the character of hoaxes although the one is in a tone of banter, the other of downright earnest, and as both hoaxes are on the same subject, the moon moreover, as both attempt to give plausibility by scientific detail the author of ""Hans Pfaall"" thinks it necessary to say, in self defence, that his own jeu d'esprit was published in the ""Southern Literary Messenger"" about three weeks before the commencement of Mr. L's in the ""New York Sun."" Fancying a likeness which, perhaps, does not exist, some of the New York papers copied ""Hans Pfaall,"" and collated it with the ""Moon Hoax,"" by way of detecting the writer of the one in the writer of the other."
3374,"All experience has shown that drowned bodies, or bodies thrown into the water immediately after death by violence, require from six to ten days for decomposition to take place to bring them to the top of the water."
3375,The murderers did escape from one of these windows.
3376,There's been a certain change in your personal appearance.
3377,"Perdita presented her to Raymond; her first words were: ""Beloved, embrace our child"" ""Come hither, sweet one,"" said her father, ""do you not know me?"" she knew his voice, and cast herself in his arms with half bashful but uncontrollable emotion."
3378,"I consented to her request, and taking her little hand, followed Raymond."
3379,"I knew all this and did not go to seek sympathy; but there on my solitary heath, under my lowly roof where all around was desart, it came to me as a sun beam in winter to adorn while it helps to dissolve the drifted snow."
3380,"I had somehow taken it for granted that the house was abandoned, yet as I approached it I was not so sure; for though the walks were indeed overgrown with weeds, they seemed to retain their nature a little too well to argue complete desertion."
3381,"He was civil, even cordial in his manner, but just then, I was more intent on observing the arrangements of the dwelling which had so much interested me, than the personal appearance of the tenant."
3382,"Habit would not dull his sense of the enjoyment of power; nor struggles, disappointment and defeat await the end of that which would expire at its maturity."
3383,"I had arrived from a weary wandering of sixteen years, during which, although I had gone through many dangers and misfortunes, my affections had been an entire blank."
3384,"I seemed to know what to do with it, for I drew a pocket electric light or what looked like one out of my pocket and nervously tested its flashes."
3385,"He suspected, that unaccustomed poverty was the cause of the mystery, and that the artist was unwilling to be seen in the garb and abode of want."
3386,"In the intervals of this period, I made every endeavor to conciliate the three creditors who had given me so much annoyance."
3387,"The farmers and cottagers, on the contrary, struck with the fear of solitude, and madly desirous of medical assistance, flocked into the towns."
3388,"That child, a boy, came in December; but was still born."
3389,"It is impossible that a person so well known to thousands as this young woman was, should have passed three blocks without some one having seen her; and any one who saw her would have remembered it, for she interested all who knew her."
3390,"I can enchain the plague in limits, and set a term to the misery it would occasion; courage, forbearance, and watchfulness, are the forces I bring towards this great work."
3391,"Still all his wishes and endeavours were directed towards her peace, and his chief discomfort arose from the perception that he exerted himself in vain."
3392,"But then there was a taper ankle, a sandalled foot."
3393,"Excellent paths of the same material not nicely adapted, but with the velvety sod filling frequent intervals between the stones, led hither and thither from the house, to a crystal spring about five paces off, to the road, or to one or two out houses that lay to the north, beyond the brook, and were thoroughly concealed by a few locusts and catalpas."
3394,"Peace, peace Learn my miseries and do not seek to increase your own."""
3395,I felt my wrists for the bell rope: it was not to be found.
3396,"With the rest of the adventure I believe you are as well acquainted as myself."""
3397,"She could not divine, that the breach which she had occasioned between Raymond and Perdita was already irreparable: but she knew, that under the present system it would be widened each day, and that its result must be to destroy her lover's happiness, and to implant the fangs of remorse in his heart."
3398,From the revolver I knew that he was thinking more of the crazed Italian than of the police.
3399,Now I am twenty eight and am in reality more illiterate than many schoolboys of fifteen.
3400,"To breathe it for more than an hour, at the farthest, would be a matter of impossibility, or, if even this term could be extended to an hour and a quarter, the most ruinous consequences might ensue."
3401,"In coin there was rather more than four hundred and fifty thousand dollars estimating the value of the pieces, as accurately as we could, by the tables of the period."
3402,I also became a poet and for one year lived in a paradise of my own creation; I imagined that I also might obtain a niche in the temple where the names of Homer and Shakespeare are consecrated.
3403,"It was horrible, yet hardly a surprise."
3404,"Suddenly a great chasm opened before him, ten feet deep, so that he had to let himself down by his hands and drop to a slanting floor, and then crawl perilously up a natural defile in the opposite wall."
3405,"Down the hill amid scented grasses and brilliant flowers walked Kuranes, over the bubbling Naraxa on the small wooden bridge where he had carved his name so many years ago, and through the whispering grove to the great stone bridge by the city gate."
3406,Alas I must for ever conceal the wretchedness that consumes me.
3407,"One could develop all sorts of aural delusions in this morbid old house for did not Gilman himself, even in daylight, now feel certain that noises other than rat scratchings came from the black voids beyond the slanting wall and above the slanting ceiling?"
3408,"Yet still there came that monotonous piping from afar; wild, weird airs that made me think of some dance of fauns on distant Maenalus."
3409,"There were periods, dreadful ones, during which I despaired doubted the existence of all duty the reality of crime but I shudder, and turn from the rememberance."
3410,"Adrian was obliged to exert his utmost prudence, first to allay the discord, and then to provide for the multitude of the invaders."
3411,"When the thing breathed, its tail and tentacles rhythmically changed colour, as if from some circulatory cause normal to the non human side of its ancestry."
3412,"I returned to Windsor at the wish of Idris, who seemed to think that there was greater safety for her children at that spot; and because, once having taken on me the guardianship of the district, I would not desert it while an inhabitant survived."
3413,Appeared to be that of a German.
3414,"Then he began to ascend the stairs, and joined me in the attic."
3415,"Upon second thought, however, she opens her purse strings and delivers the specie."
3416,"Then he collapsed, an inert mass of mangled flesh."
3417,"It was also evident, that the water thus falling from a height of more than four feet, could not do otherwise than fall upon my face, and that the sure consequences would be, to waken me up instantaneously, even from the soundest slumber in the world."
3418,"Unquestionably, it was in the Earth's dotage that I died."
3419,"Nowhere, however, could he find ease and content; and as he grew older the staleness and limitations of life became more and more maddening to him."
3420,"When reason returned with the morning when I had slept off the fumes of the night's debauch I experienced a sentiment half of horror, half of remorse, for the crime of which I had been guilty; but it was, at best, a feeble and equivocal feeling, and the soul remained untouched."
3421,We accordingly rested on a seat until they should return.
3422,"If I grieved it was for your mother, if I loved it was your image; these sole emotions filled my heart in quietness."
3423,"Once, however, the lieutenant asked why he had come so far upon the ice in so strange a vehicle."
3424,"The form of the monster on whom I had bestowed existence was forever before my eyes, and I raved incessantly concerning him."
3425,"""Full well alas do I remember it,"" I exclaimed, pressing passionately the delicate hand which offered the glasses for my inspection."
3426,I have harnessed the shadows that stride from world to world to sow death and madness. . . .
3427,"First, his having entered into any engagement that should permit her to remain in such a state of degradation; and then, after a short wild dream, having left her to drear solitude, anxious conjecture, and bitter, still disappointed expectation."
3428,"If heaven is merciful, it will some day efface from my consciousness the sight that I saw, and let me live my last years in peace."
3429,His hands were enormously large.
3430,"What would be your surprise, my son, when you expected a happy and glad welcome, to behold, on the contrary, tears and wretchedness?"
3431,"At length, in an abrupt manner she asked, ""Where is he?"" ""O, fear not,"" she continued, ""fear not that I should entertain hope Yet tell me, have you found him?"
3432,"I had insisted on accompanying him across the heath towards the town where he dwelt: the sun was yet high when he left me, and I turned my steps towards my cottage."
3433,"DURING the whole of a dull, dark, and soundless day in the autumn of the year, when the clouds hung oppressively low in the heavens, I had been passing alone, on horseback, through a singularly dreary tract of country; and at length found myself, as the shades of the evening drew on, within view of the melancholy House of Usher."
3434,"'There must be something wrong,' I said, 'about the nail.'"
3435,It was clear that we were already within the influence of the comet; yet we lived.
3436,"They did not float as I had expected; but dropped down perpendicularly, like a bullet, en masse, and with the greatest velocity being out of sight in a very few seconds."
3437,It appears to me a miracle of miracles that our enormous bulk is not swallowed up at once and forever.
3438,"But the flabby hands, curiously gloved, wrote genially on the tablet and told me I must wait a while before I could be led to the place of festival."
3439,"She became excessively intimate with most of the ladies; and, to my profound astonishment, evinced no equivocal disposition to coquet with the men."
3440,I quivered not in a muscle.
3441,"I took refuge in the courtyard belonging to the house which I inhabited, where I remained during the rest of the night, walking up and down in the greatest agitation, listening attentively, catching and fearing each sound as if it were to announce the approach of the demoniacal corpse to which I had so miserably given life."
3442,"On the evening previous to her being brought to my home, my mother had said playfully, ""I have a pretty present for my Victor tomorrow he shall have it."""
3443,"It was Maurice who, in the poet's st year, secured the adoption of his work as a textbook in the schools of the empire, an honour which proved a fatal tax on the aged rhetorician's emotions, since he passed away peacefully at his home near the church of St. Sophia on the sixth day before the Kalends of September, A.D. , in the nd year of his age."
3444,"One of these crucibles was nearly full of lead in a state of fusion, but not reaching up to the aperture of the tube, which was close to the brim."
3445,"Strange urges still tugged at him, but he could sidetrack them with considerable success."
3446,"I passed the bridge of Pelissier, where the ravine, which the river forms, opened before me, and I began to ascend the mountain that overhangs it."
3447,"Owing to the vast antiquity, the style of architecture is somewhat odd, but it is not for that reason the less strikingly picturesque."
3448,"At first I beheld nothing but a seething blur of luminosity; but then shapes, all infinitely distant, began to detach themselves from the confusion, and I saw was it Juan Romero?"
3449,Of course he had some principle of guessing; and this lay in mere observation and admeasurement of the astuteness of his opponents.
3450,"And morning and evening my tearful eyes raised to heaven, my hands clasped tight in the energy of prayer, I have repeated with the poet Before I see another day Oh, let this body die away Let me not be reproached then with inutility; I believed that by suicide I should violate a divine law of nature, and I thought that I sufficiently fulfilled my part in submitting to the hard task of enduring the crawling hours minutes in bearing the load of time that weighed miserably upon me and that in abstaining from what I in my calm moments considered a crime, I deserved the reward of virtue."
3451,"In answer to this question, I described our gloomy winter life, our sordid cares, our menial labours: ""This northern country,"" I said, ""is no place for our diminished race."
3452,"I am an unfortunate and deserted creature, I look around and I have no relation or friend upon earth."
3453,His frankness would have led him to disabuse every inquirer of such prejudice; but his indolent humor forbade all farther agitation of a topic whose interest to himself had long ceased.
3454,"Her features had lost the distortion of grief; her eyes were brightened, her very person seemed dilated; while the excessive whiteness and even transparency of her skin, and something hollow in her voice, bore witness that not tranquillity, but excess of excitement, occasioned the treacherous calm that settled on her countenance."
3455,"Just before dawn, on each of the two nights of which I speak, I distinctly heard Mr. Wyatt replace the lid upon the oblong box, and force the nails into their old places by means of the muffled mallet."
3456,"Perceptions of the most maddeningly untransmissible sort thronged upon us; perceptions of infinity which at the time convulsed us with joy, yet which are now partly lost to my memory and partly incapable of presentation to others."
3457,"They were, he said, of very grotesque and almost repulsive design, and had never to his knowledge been publicly worn; though my grandmother used to enjoy looking at them."
3458,By far the greater number of the articles were shattered in the most extraordinary way so chafed and roughened as to have the appearance of being stuck full of splinters but then I distinctly recollected that there were some of them which were not disfigured at all.
3459,"Sat down then, and winked at the lean lady, when I had the high satisfaction of finding him lift me up by the nape of the neck, and fling me over into the pit."
3460,"His accursed city is sunken once more, for the Vigilant sailed over the spot after the April storm; but his ministers on earth still bellow and prance and slay around idol capped monoliths in lonely places."
3461,"But Ellison maintained that the richest, the truest, and most natural, if not altogether the most extensive province, had been unaccountably neglected."
3462,"""Farewell for ever"" The moment I finished this letter I ordered the carriage and prepared to follow my father."
3463,"The senses were oppressed by mingled and conflicting perfumes, reeking up from strange convolute censers, together with multitudinous flaring and flickering tongues of emerald and violet fire."
3464,"""The Turk allowed this intimacy to take place and encouraged the hopes of the youthful lovers, while in his heart he had formed far other plans."
3465,"All the difference is, that his pipe is somewhat bigger than theirs and he can make a greater smoke."
3466,"The distance was greater than we wished, but we could get no nearer house without going on the other side of the field, wholly out of the factory district."
3467,"He drew a revolver and motioned me to silence, then stepped out into the main cellar and closed the door behind him."
3468,"These would have been of great assistance at such times, in using the sweeps, as well as afterward in fishing but, somehow, although we ran the risk ourselves, we had not the heart to let the young ones get into the danger for, after all is said and done, it was a horrible danger, and that is the truth."
3469,"We accordingly lay to, hoping that some change would take place in the atmosphere and weather."
3470,"And when he had failed to find these boons in things whose laws are known and measurable, they told him he lacked imagination, and was immature because he preferred dream illusions to the illusions of our physical creation."
3471,"The former Protector tendered him the oaths, and presented him with the insignia of office, performing the ceremonies of installation."
3472,"I shuddered when I thought of the possible consequences of my consent, but I felt that there was some justice in his argument."
3473,"The men shuffled about a moment, and then Earl Sawyer spoke softly, pointing with a grimy finger through the steadily lessening rain."
3474,I thrust a torch through the remaining aperture and let it fall within.
3475,"""For some moments we were completely deluged, as I say, and all this time I held my breath, and clung to the bolt."
3476,"This, I knew, must be Devil Reef."
3477,"But there is something excessively unphilosophical in the attempt on the part of Le Moniteur, to rebut the general assertion of L'Etoile, by a citation of particular instances militating against that assertion."
3478,"An aperture in the midst let in the light of heaven; but this was overgrown with brambles and underwood, which acted as a veil, obscuring the day, and giving a solemn religious hue to the apartment."
3479,"The first horrible incident of our acquaintance was the greatest shock I ever experienced, and it is only with reluctance that I repeat it."
3480,"I have been filled with it by certain sounds from stringed instruments, and not unfrequently by passages from books."
3481,"Detectives have questioned me, but what can I say?"
3482,As this terrible conviction came upon him me? it melted my soul to tenderness and love I gazed on him as to take my last farewell he lay insensible his eyes closed as and? his cheeks deathly pale.
3483,"She had been subjected, it said, to brutal violence."
3484,Will she not be here anon?
3485,"'It is folly to suppose,' he says, 'that the murder, if murder was committed on her body, could have been consummated soon enough to have enabled her murderers to throw the body into the river before midnight.'"
3486,"That cryptical pull from the north was getting very strong again, though it seemed now to come from a lower place in the sky."
3487,"When these things palled, disappointed, or grew nauseous through revulsion, they cultivated irony and bitterness, and found fault with the social order."
3488,"A great part of these grounds had been given to cultivation, and strips of potatoe land and corn were scattered here and there."
3489,"When these qualities are unavailing, their schemes fail."
3490,"On a slab in an alcove he found an old but empty coffin whose tarnished plate bears the single word ""Jervas""."
3491,Servants found me unconscious in the morning.
3492,"William, Justine, and Henry they all died by my hands."""
3493,The ground was moist and slippery.
3494,"Among other painful restrictions, she has occasioned it to become a law among us, never to mention Raymond's name before her."
3495,You might have surmised I had some inside information when I dropped him and that's why I don't want to think where he's gone.
3496,Thus the poor sufferer tried to comfort others and herself.
3497,"One evening, leaning over the taffrail, I observed a very singular, isolated cloud, to the N.W."
3498,"There is a space of about three inches between the top of the drawer as seen from the exterior, and the bottom of the cupboard a space which must be included in the height of the drawer."
3499,Minuteness: Your diddler is minute.
3500,"When the game, however, is obvious, he has time to look about him, and, accordingly, we see the head shake and the eyes roll. ."
3501,"""Yes, massa, him dead as de door nail done up for sartain done departed dis here life."""
3502,"No guilt, no mischief, no malignity, no misery, can be found comparable to mine."
3503,"I now formed the habit of listening very intently at the slightly open portal, choosing my favourite hours of midnight stillness for the odd vigil."
3504,"I found this machine, however, to require considerable alteration before it could be adapted to the purposes to which I intended making it applicable."
3505,"As is common in communities, a fashion was set."
3506,"If we survive this coming summer, I will not spend the ensuing winter in England; neither I nor any of us."""
3507,"Above the distant chanting and the nearer praying of Joe Mazurewicz came another sound a stealthy, determined scratching in the partitions."
3508,"'We have no evidence,' he says, 'that Marie Rogêt was in the land of the living after nine o'clock on Sunday, June the twenty second.'"
3509,"If he had not been, one cannot say what he would have done when the object came."
3510,"Onward still onward stalked the grim Legs, making the desolate solemnity echo and re echo with yells like the terrific war whoop of the Indian: and onward, still onward rolled the dumpy Tarpaulin, hanging on to the doublet of his more active companion, and far surpassing the latter's most strenuous exertions in the way of vocal music, by bull roarings in basso, from the profundity of his stentorian lungs."
3511,"He had meant to tear it down and build an apartment house on the site, but after my account decided to let it stand, install plumbing, and rent it."
3512,"But Barzai was old and learned and had no fears, so led the way boldly up the slope that no man had scaled since the time of Sansu, who is written of with fright in the mouldy Pnakotic Manuscripts."
3513,"I knocked repeatedly at the door, but received no response."
3514,You'll notice a little in Sargent if you take his bus.
3515,His reckless courage and comprehensive genius brought him into notice.
3516,"Immediately beneath me in the ocean, lay a small black object, slightly oblong in shape, seemingly about the size, and in every way bearing a great resemblance to one of those childish toys called a domino."
3517,"I felt that they were near, that they were safe, yet methought this was all deceit; the earth reeled, the firm enrooted trees moved dizziness came over me I sank to the ground."
3518,They are undoubtedly part of PEAAEMA.
3519,Alas I but too soon discovered.
3520,"Thereafter I heard Zann every night, and although he kept me awake, I was haunted by the weirdness of his music."
3521,"Then the mark of misery would have faded from my brow, and I should raise my eyes fearlessly to meet his, which ever beamed with the soft lustre of innocent love."
3522,"In a foreign climate, being unknown, I might, with some probability of success, endeavor to conceal my unhappy calamity a calamity calculated, even more than beggary, to estrange the affections of the multitude, and to draw down upon the wretch the well merited indignation of the virtuous and the happy."
3523,"I wrote, and this exertion greatly fatigued me; but my convalescence had commenced, and proceeded regularly."
3524,"Nevertheless, I slept soundly, and the whole of my vision for it was no dream, and no nightmare arose naturally from the circumstances of my position from my ordinary bias of thought and from the difficulty, to which I have alluded, of collecting my senses, and especially of regaining my memory, for a long time after awaking from slumber."
3525,I have hired a vessel and am occupied in collecting my sailors; those whom I have already engaged appear to be men on whom I can depend and are certainly possessed of dauntless courage.
3526,"Perhaps a couple of blows with a mattock were sufficient, while his coadjutors were busy in the pit; perhaps it required a dozen who shall tell?"" IN THE consideration of the faculties and impulses of the prima mobilia of the human soul, the phrenologists have failed to make room for a propensity which, although obviously existing as a radical, primitive, irreducible sentiment, has been equally overlooked by all the moralists who have preceded them."
3527,"For my own part, I had charge of a couple of dark lanterns, while Legrand contented himself with the scarabæus, which he carried attached to the end of a bit of whip cord; twirling it to and fro, with the air of a conjuror, as he went."
3528,"On the carpet they were very indistinct, but a piece of open flooring intervened between the carpet's edge and the base board."
3529,"What must have been the astonishment of all, then, when having proceeded a few fathoms from the ship, Mr. Wyatt stood up in the stern sheets, and coolly demanded of Captain Hardy that the boat should be put back for the purpose of taking in his oblong box ""Sit down, Mr. Wyatt,"" replied the captain, somewhat sternly, ""you will capsize us if you do not sit quite still."
3530,"If I saw him at a distance, riding a beautiful horse, my blood boiled with rage; the air seemed poisoned by his presence, and my very native English was changed to a vile jargon, since every phrase I heard was coupled with his name and honour."
3531,"In this dilemma I had recourse to paternal aid; and, after some hours of mature thought, my father and myself thus constructed the poem: ""To pen an Ode upon the ""Oil of Bob"" Is all sorts of a job."
3532,If it came before Arkham I would stop off there and so I asked the agent to tell me something about it.
3533,"As the doctor put him to bed he could only mutter over and over again, ""But what, in God's name, can we do?"""
3534,"But why should I repine at this? Misery was my element, and nothing but what was miserable could approach me; if Woodville had been happy I should never have known him."
3535,"Having, in some measure, satisfied my curiosity in regard to the extent, situation, and general appearance of the city, I had leisure to survey the church in which I was, and the delicate architecture of the steeple."
3536,"It was a secret room, far, far underground; where huge winged daemons carven of basalt and onyx vomited from wide grinning mouths weird green and orange light, and hidden pneumatic pipes ruffled into kaleidoscopic dances of death the lines of red charnel things hand in hand woven in voluminous black hangings."
3537,"Perdita at length subdued her burst of passion, and rose, she looked round for Clara; the child frightened, not recognizing her father, and neglected by us, had crept to the other end of the boat; she came at her mother's call."
3538,"I found myself sitting in the library, and again sitting there alone."
3539,"One summer night, after a thunderstorm of unprecedented violence, the countryside was aroused by a squatter stampede which no mere delusion could create."
3540,"He did not even introduce me to his wife this courtesy devolving, per force, upon his sister Marian a very sweet and intelligent girl, who, in a few hurried words, made us acquainted."
3541,"Should I return to the Castle, to my wife and children, with this taint upon me?"
3542,"The cure was, to insist upon the thing as a fact to accuse the patient of stupidity in not sufficiently perceiving it to be a fact and thus to refuse him any other diet for a week than that which properly appertains to a chicken."
3543,"I was so entirely wrapt in this reverie that I wandered on, taking no heed of my steps until I actually stooped down to gather a flower for my wreath on that bleak plain where no flower grew, when I awoke from my day dream and found myself I knew not where."
3544,"""But is that house with the attic window still standing and deserted?"""
3545,"But when he came to study those who had thrown off the old myths, he found them even more ugly than those who had not."
3546,"This part of the Rhine, indeed, presents a singularly variegated landscape."
3547,At length I approached that time which I had so long viewed with apprehension.
3548,Beyond doubt there is nothing of a similar nature so greatly tasking the faculty of analysis.
3549,"Then came a deadly circuit of the tower, clinging to whatever holds the slimy wall could give; till finally my testing hand found the barrier yielding, and I turned upward again, pushing the slab or door with my head as I used both hands in my fearful ascent."
3550,"It is needless to say that I became excessively alarmed, having, in the first instance, attributed the noise to the bursting of the balloon."
3551,"I was forced, in a manner, to wink and to blink, whether I would or not, in exact concert with the scoundrelly thing that lay just under my nose."
3552,There is a belfry man whose sole duty is to attend to it; but this duty is the most perfect of sinecures for the clock of Vondervotteimittis was never yet known to have anything the matter with it.
3553,"I must own I felt a little proud when my captain offered me the second dignity in the vessel and entreated me to remain with the greatest earnestness, so valuable did he consider my services."
3554,Until this moment my soul had been in my eyes only.
3555,"Pundit assures me that the same ideas were put nearly in the same way, about a thousand years ago, by an Irish philosopher called Furrier, on account of his keeping a retail shop for cat peltries and other furs."
3556,"The visiter, shooting suddenly into this bay from out the gloom of the ravine, is delighted but astounded by the full orb of the declining sun, which he had supposed to be already far below the horizon, but which now confronts him, and forms the sole termination of an otherwise limitless vista seen through another chasm like rift in the hills."
3557,These rumors must have had some foundation in fact.
3558,"He felt that he was needlessly and irrationally retarded in a supremely great work; a work which he could of course conduct to suit himself in later years, but which he wished to begin while still possessed of the exceptional facilities of the university."
3559,"""Yes,"" replied the Prefect; ""and the power thus attained has, for some months past, been wielded, for political purposes, to a very dangerous extent."
3560,"At first, relieved from famine and the grave, watched over by Raymond with the tenderest assiduity, with that feeling of repose peculiar to convalescence, Evadne gave herself up to rapturous gratitude and love."
3561,"""The guide rope remedies the difficulty in the simplest manner conceivable."
3562,"""You swear,"" I said, ""to be harmless; but have you not already shown a degree of malice that should reasonably make me distrust you?"
3563,"All inquiry, except that of a private character, was of course immediately hushed."
3564,Not long after this Pickman produced a flashlight and revealed an antediluvian ten panelled door that looked damnably worm eaten.
3565,"At evening Iranon sang, and while he sang an old man prayed and a blind man said he saw a nimbus over the singer's head."
3566,"One party playing requires another to find a given word the name of town, river, state or empire any word, in short, upon the motley and perplexed surface of the chart."
3567,"There was an eager delight in our tones and gestures that could only spring from deep mutual love joined to the most unrestrained confidence; and now the next day, the next hour, I saw his brows contracted, his eyes fixed in sullen fierceness on the ground, and his voice so gentle and so dear made me shiver when he addressed me."
3568,"We were, however, well aware of having made farther to the southward than any previous navigators, and felt great amazement at not meeting with the usual impediments of ice."
3569,"There was, however, something he wanted in embattled Flanders; and in order to secure it he had to assume a military exterior."
3570,"To establish the artificial motion, natural life must be extinct the specimens must be very fresh, but genuinely dead."
3571,"At a distance from facts one draws conclusions which appear infallible, which yet when put to the test of reality, vanish like unreal dreams."
3572,"""I beg a thousand pardons for the suspicion,"" I replied, ""but of course you will know how to excuse me."
3573,"""I guess he's sayin' the spell,"" whispered Wheeler as he snatched back the telescope."
3574,"It must have been some imp of the perverse or some sardonic pull from dark, hidden sources which made me change my plans as I did."
3575,"I had indeed spent some money and great labor in adapting the apparatus to the object intended, and confidently looked forward to its successful application, if I could manage to complete the voyage within any reasonable period."
3576,"So, after thoroughly studying the manuscript again and correlating the theosophical and anthropological notes with the cult narrative of Legrasse, I made a trip to Providence to see the sculptor and give him the rebuke I thought proper for so boldly imposing upon a learned and aged man."
3577,"Hope, and your wounds will be already half healed: but if you obstinately despair, there never more will be comfort for you."
3578,Our circle will be small but bound close by the ties of affection and mutual misfortune.
3579,"No doubt the true object was to admit the arm of an attendant, to adjust, when necessary, the hands of the clock from within."
3580,"Subterrene arcana, hidden for years, came at last to the light."
3581,"Wild blows were struck, shots were fired, and escapes were made; but in the end Legrasse was able to count some forty seven sullen prisoners, whom he forced to dress in haste and fall into line between two rows of policemen."
3582,"""The paper is spread out upon a plane surface; but the human throat is cylindrical."
3583,"I sought the little bed of my darling; he was oppressed by fever; but I trusted, I fondly and fearfully trusted, that there were no symptoms of the plague."
3584,"I will be brief for there is in all this a horror that will not bear many words, and I sink almost a second time to death while I recall these sad scenes to my memory."
3585,I struggled to reason off the nervousness which had dominion over me.
3586,"Into the lands of civilisation came Nyarlathotep, swarthy, slender, and sinister, always buying strange instruments of glass and metal and combining them into instruments yet stranger."
3587,"I felt, also, that the whole train of thought, which I was at some pains in detailing to you just now, concerning the invariable principle of policial action in searches for articles concealed I felt that this whole train of thought would necessarily pass through the mind of the Minister."
3588,"""Madam"" ""Or a more delicate sense of the true beauties of Shakespeare?"
3589,"All, without exception, appeared to deal with black magic in its most advanced and horrible forms; and the evidently recent date of certain items is still a mystery as unsolved as that of the modern human bones."
3590,"Since I last saw you I have been constantly employed in writing letters, and have several more to write; for I do not intend that any one shall hear of me after I depart."
3591,"The results of the analysis are undoubtedly, in the main, just; but we can only account for Brewster's pronouncing the Essay a thorough and satisfactory explanation, by supposing him to have bestowed upon it a very cursory and inattentive perusal."
3592,"Our own distresses, though they were occasioned by the fictitious reciprocity of commerce, encreased in due proportion."
3593,"A strange idea seized me; a person must have felt all the agonies of doubt concerning the life and death of one who is the whole world to them before they can enter into my feelings for in that state, the mind working unrestrained by the will makes strange and fanciful combinations with outward circumstances and weaves the chances and changes of nature into an immediate connexion with the event they dread."
3594,"So this was the way the folk of the uncanny house journeyed betwixt earth and sky When he climbed out of the chasm a morning mist was gathering, but he clearly saw the lofty and unhallowed cottage ahead; walls as grey as the rock, and high peak standing bold against the milky white of the seaward vapours."
3595,"Idris smiled her thanks, and rose to take leave."
3596,"""Verney,"" said he, ""my first act when I become King of England, will be to unite with the Greeks, take Constantinople, and subdue all Asia."
3597,"""So help me God,"" said he, after a brief pause, ""I will tell you all I know about this affair; but I do not expect you to believe one half I say I would be a fool indeed if I did."
3598,"Such a man has a double existence: he may suffer misery and be overwhelmed by disappointments, yet when he has retired into himself, he will be like a celestial spirit that has a halo around him, within whose circle no grief or folly ventures."
3599,"Of the dungeons there had been strange things narrated fables I had always deemed them but yet strange, and too ghastly to repeat, save in a whisper."
3600,"We encountered no living creature, for the men of the night shift had been released from duty, and were doubtless at the Dry Gulch settlement pouring sinister rumours into the ear of some drowsy bartender."
3601,"""But what have we here?"
3602,The prophecy seemed to imply if it implied anything a final triumph on the part of the already more powerful house; and was of course remembered with the more bitter animosity by the weaker and less influential.
3603,"But here, too, was there no satisfaction or fulfilment; for the touch of earth was upon his mind, and he could not think of lovely things as he had done of yore."
3604,"Then the mere consciousness of existence, without thought a condition which lasted long."
3605,It was that of a man clad in a skull cap and long mediaeval tunic of dark colour.
3606,"I was slow, too, in realising that the school of unusual dolphins had vanished."
3607,"The reason which, most probably, would be assigned for this circumstance, if the question were demanded, is, that were the antagonist otherwise situated, his person would intervene between the machine and the spectators, and preclude the latter from a distinct view."
3608,"While he did this, I retained my seat by the fire, for I was still chilly."
3609,"I am convinced that, at the worst, he would have returned from the seashore to take leave of us, and to make us the partners of his council."
3610,"Again I shivered, for I did not like the things that the night had brought, and wished bitterly that no forefather had summoned me to this primal rite."
3611,"The utter inutility that had attended all my exertions took from them their usual effects of exhilaration, and despair rendered abortive the balm of self applause I longed to return to my old occupations, but of what use were they?"
3612,Sleep came not near my couch while the hours waned and waned away.
3613,"What the wasting tree is to the water that imbibes its shade, growing thus blacker by what it preys upon, may not the life of the Fay be to the death which engulfs it?"""
3614,"It was thrust carelessly, and even, as it seemed, contemptuously, into one of the uppermost divisions of the rack."
3615,"What was really beyond dispute is that a frightful proportion of persons died there; or more accurately, had died there, since after some peculiar happenings over sixty years ago the building had become deserted through the sheer impossibility of renting it."
3616,"I met a company of soldiers outside the walls; I borrowed a horse from one of them, and hastened to my sister."
3617,"The idea which the raconteur has either failed to entertain clearly, or has sacrificed in its expression to his national love of point, is, doubtless, the very tenable one that the higher order of music is the most thoroughly estimated when we are exclusively alone."
3618,"For a second I thought this typical physique suggested some picture I had seen, perhaps in a book, under circumstances of particular horror or melancholy; but this pseudo recollection passed very quickly."
3619,"Three days elapsed, and nothing was heard of her."
3620,All this research work required a prodigious supply of freshly slaughtered human flesh and that was why Herbert West had entered the Great War.
3621,"In person, he is short and stout, with large, fat, blue eyes, sandy hair and whiskers, a wide but pleasing mouth, fine teeth, and I think a Roman nose."
3622,"He seemed born anew, and virtue, more potent than Medean alchemy, endued him with health and strength."
3623,So I told them no more.
3624,"I will not lead you on, unguarded and ardent as I then was, to your destruction and infallible misery."
3625,But the big bell had not done with them yet.
3626,IN the mean time what did Perdita?
3627,"Years passed thus, even years."
3628,"Ye toil to live, but is not life made of beauty and song?"
3629,"Soon, oh, very soon, will death extinguish these throbbings and relieve me from the mighty weight of anguish that bears me to the dust; and, in executing the award of justice, I shall also sink to rest."
3630,"We were born to be friends to each other; and though ill fortune has divided us, will you not acknowledge the hereditary bond of friendship which I trust will hereafter unite us?"""
3631,"Madly flushed with cards and intoxication, I was in the act of insisting upon a toast of more than wonted profanity, when my attention was suddenly diverted by the violent, although partial unclosing of the door of the apartment, and by the eager voice of a servant from without."
3632,Yet all this was only the prologue of the actual Dunwich horror.
3633,"For many years past he had been attended by a physician, named Templeton an old gentleman, perhaps seventy years of age whom he had first encountered at Saratoga, and from whose attention, while there, he either received, or fancied that he received, great benefit."
3634,"I then filled up the remaining holes, and placed the barrels over them in their destined situation."
3635,"On April he was captured by the colonists and soon after executed, but the austere head of Ibid continued on its wanderings."
3636,"To leave England for ever to turn from its polluted fields and groves, and, placing the sea between us, to quit it, as a sailor quits the rock on which he has been wrecked, when the saving ship rides by."
3637,"The ladies, as usual, talked a great deal."
3638,It is a happiness to wonder; it is a happiness to dream.
3639,A strong and lofty wall girdled it in.
3640,"Farther back within the domain, the vision is impeded by an impenetrable screen of foliage."
3641,I do not die not having enjoyed life; for sixteen years I was happy: during the first months of my father's return I had enjoyed ages of pleasure: now indeed I am grown old in grief; my steps are feeble like those of age; I have become peevish and unfit for life; so having passed little more than twenty years upon the earth I am more fit for my narrow grave than many are when they reach the natural term of their lives.
3642,"The soul of tender sorrow is breathed forth in this strain; and the sweet voice of Idris, sustained by the mournful chords of her instrument, added to the expression of the words."
3643,On that night he had determined to consummate his crimes by my death.
3644,"Whether he had imagination enough to wish they were empty, is strongly to be doubted."
3645,"Raymond, stopping mid way in his wild career, paused suddenly to think of consequences."
3646,What I learned and saw in those hours of impious exploration can never be told for want of symbols or suggestions in any language.
3647,"But, in addition to what I have already urged in regard to Encke's comet and the zodiacal light, I had been strengthened in my opinion by certain observations of Mr. Schroeter, of Lilienthal."
3648,But now there came from out the niche a low laugh that erected the hairs upon my head.
3649,"Then all at once the horrible eyes, blacker even than the seared face in which they were set, opened wide with an expression which I was unable to interpret."
3650,"Families, bred in opulence and luxury, were reduced to beggary."
3651,"She grew weaker each day, and each day she had further to go."
3652,"I believe the old villain loved me as his own child nearly if not quite as well as he loved Kate but it was a dog's existence that he led me, after all."
3653,"The 'castle' consisted of an irregular assemblage of cliffs and rocks one of the latter being quite remarkable for its height as well as for its insulated and artificial appearance I clambered to its apex, and then felt much at a loss as to what should be next done."
3654,"For the squat creatures were mighty in the arts of war, and knew not the scruples of honour which held back our tall, grey eyed men of Lomar from ruthless conquest."
3655,"His proximity was becoming rather obnoxious, yet I saw no way to escape without offending him."
3656,"Wilbur was by this time a scholar of really tremendous erudition in his one sided way, and was quietly known by correspondence to many librarians in distant places where rare and forbidden books of old days are kept."
3657,We make chance a matter of absolute calculation.
3658,"I turned it on full in his face, and saw the sallow features glow first with violet and then with pinkish light."
3659,"Over the door, however, the high, slit like transom in the brick facade gave promise of possible enlargement to a diligent worker; hence upon this his eyes long rested as he racked his brains for means to reach it."
3660,This need for very fresh corpses had been West's moral undoing.
3661,He came to a part of the country where he was entirely unknown and where in the deepest solitude he could converse only with his own heart.
3662,"Less worthy of notice was the fact that the mother was one of the decadent Whateleys, a somewhat deformed, unattractive albino woman of thirty five, living with an aged and half insane father about whom the most frightful tales of wizardry had been whispered in his youth."
3663,About the throat were bruises and impressions of fingers.
3664,"If he dares to reply, you can tell him from Lucan here it is that speeches are mere anemonae verborum, anemone words."
3665,"If, therefore, I could seize him and educate him as my companion and friend, I should not be so desolate in this peopled earth."
3666,"My deficiencies of vision were then explained; for these were notorious, although I was entirely ignorant of their notoriety, and my good old relative discovered, much to her chagrin, that she had been deceived in supposing me aware of her identity, and that I had been merely making a fool of myself in making open love, in a theatre, to an old woman unknown."
3667,"Of course, much depends upon the selection of a spot with capabilities."
3668,"We are told by the wisest philosophers of the dangers of the world, the deceits of men, and the treason of our own hearts: but not the less fearlessly does each put off his frail bark from the port, spread the sail, and strain his oar, to attain the multitudinous streams of the sea of life."
3669,"So The Street dreamed on, past wars, calamities, and changes."
3670,"Probably it was the shrill piping that awaked me, yet that piping was not what I noticed first when I opened my eyes."
3671,"She relented; but there was yet an obstacle, she said, which she felt assured I had not properly considered."
3672,"One of them, a heavy tome with an iron clasp, was in another unknown alphabet this one of a very different cast, and resembling Sanscrit more than anything else."
3673,My thoughts and every feeling of my soul have been drunk up by the interest for my guest which this tale and his own elevated and gentle manners have created.
3674,"I began to feel that the tomb was mine, and to look forward with hot eagerness to the time when I might pass within that stone door and down those slimy stone steps in the dark."
3675,"She hastens to make the purchase, gets a bill and receipt, leaves her address, with a request that the article be sent home as speedily as possible, and retires amid a profusion of bows from the shopkeeper."
3676,"He had schemed, if he failed in his present attempt, without taking leave of any of us, to embark for Greece, and never again to revisit England."
3677,"Yet some quality about it disturbed me almost as much as its features pleased me perhaps it was too white, or too expressionless, or too much out of keeping with the locality, to make me feel easy or comfortable."
3678,"""Right naow Barnabas is abaout changed."
3679,"But he, the painter, took glory in his work, which went on from hour to hour, and from day to day."
3680,"And the man shuddered, and turned his face away, and fled afar off, in haste, so that I beheld him no more."""
3681,"They were removing the stones quietly, one by one, from the centuried wall."
3682,"As I hope to live, her talents were of no common order her powers of mind were gigantic."
3683,"What the hound was, and why it pursued me, were questions still vague; but I had first heard the baying in that ancient churchyard, and every subsequent event including St. John's dying whisper had served to connect the curse with the stealing of the amulet."
3684,"M. Beauvais as it appears from your notes had some personal interviews with the editor of L'Etoile, and offended him by venturing an opinion that the corpse, notwithstanding the theory of the editor, was, in sober fact, that of Marie."
3685,"Some power from heaven, coming to my aid, obliterated both sights and sounds in such a crash as may be heard when two universes collide in space."
3686,"We thus gain another letter, r, represented by , with the words 'the tree' in juxtaposition."
3687,He wore rimless spectacles with steel bows.
3688,"I shall say nothing more upon this point; and, as the evidence fully rebuts the assertion of L'Etoile, touching the matter of apathy on the part of the mother and other relatives an apathy inconsistent with the supposition of their believing the corpse to be that of the perfumery girl we shall now proceed as if the question of identity were settled to our perfect satisfaction."""
3689,"But the powers of love, poetry, and creative fancy will dwell even beside the sick of the plague, with the squalid, and with the dying."
3690,"In stature she was tall, somewhat slender, and, in her latter days, even emaciated."
3691,"Many of these, of high rank in their own countries, now, with hoe in hand, turned up the soil."
3692,"Justine, poor unhappy Justine, was as innocent as I, and she suffered the same charge; she died for it; and I am the cause of this I murdered her."
3693,"Taking with her some jewels that belonged to her and a sum of money, she quitted Italy with an attendant, a native of Leghorn, but who understood the common language of Turkey, and departed for Germany."
3694,"Upon Jupiter's again attempting to muzzle him, he made furious resistance, and, leaping into the hole, tore up the mould frantically with his claws."
3695,He bitterly deplored the false pride which led his friend to a conduct so little worthy of the affection that united them.
3696,"Oh, beloved father Accept the pure heart of your unhappy daughter; permit me to join you unspotted as I was or you will not recognize my altered semblance."
3697,"That tenebrousness was indeed a positive quality; for it obscured such parts of the inner walls as ought to have been revealed, and actually burst forth like smoke from its aeon long imprisonment, visibly darkening the sun as it slunk away into the shrunken and gibbous sky on flapping membraneous wings."
3698,"In the morning, I procured, at the Prefecture, a full report of all the evidence elicited, and, at the various newspaper offices, a copy of every paper in which, from first to last, had been published any decisive information in regard to this sad affair."
3699,"Besides, she had memories of past tenderness to cherish, smiles, words, and even tears, to con over, which, though remembered in desertion and sorrow, were to be preferred to the forgetfulness of the grave."
3700,"Conscious of having deserved punishment, it seemed desirous of concealing its bloody deeds, and skipped about the chamber in an agony of nervous agitation; throwing down and breaking the furniture as it moved, and dragging the bed from the bedstead."
3701,"Something in the night constrained the cloaked man to silence, and for a long hour he led me forward without needless words; making only the briefest of comments concerning ancient names and dates and changes, and directing my progress very largely by gestures as we squeezed through interstices, tiptoed through corridors, clambered over brick walls, and once crawled on hands and knees through a low, arched passage of stone whose immense length and tortuous twistings effaced at last every hint of geographical location I had managed to preserve."
3702,It was then that he began that rambling tale which suddenly played upon a sleeping memory and won the fevered interest of my uncle.
3703,"Most of the Jermyns had possessed a subtly odd and repellent cast, but Arthur's case was very striking."
3704,Yet it is terrible to reflect that the lives of all these men are endangered through me.
3705,"How strangely, sweet Una, you echo my words I observe, too, a vacillation in your step a joyous inquietude in your eyes."
3706,Among some these changes produced a devotion and sacrifice of self at once graceful and heroic.
3707,"Shot Elam Hutchins' collie Jack when he went to bite me, and Elam says he would kill me if he dast."
3708,"For the fine arts, and especially for the belles lettres, he entertained a profound contempt."
3709,At length there came into my head one of those exquisitely original ideas which now and then will permeate the brain of a man of genius.
3710,Only by chance did I go to the north window and look out upon the silent village and the plain at the edge of the bog.
3711,"""My heart beat quick; this was the hour and moment of trial, which would decide my hopes or realize my fears."
3712,"""You have had a good look at the whirl now,"" said the old man, ""and if you will creep round this crag, so as to get in its lee, and deaden the roar of the water, I will tell you a story that will convince you I ought to know something of the Moskoe ström."""
3713,"A large camera on a table excited my notice, and Pickman told me that he used it in taking scenes for backgrounds, so that he might paint them from photographs in the studio instead of carting his outfit around the town for this or that view."
3714,"Besides, the grocery youth had told me that the churches, as well as the Order of Dagon Hall, were not advisable neighbourhoods for strangers."
3715,"The work was soon finished; in a few minutes a tumultuous sea rolled between me and my enemy, and I was left drifting on a scattered piece of ice that was continually lessening and thus preparing for me a hideous death."
3716,"Many men may scoff at his dread; but he read the future; and the peace of Perdita was too dear to him, her speechless agony too certain, and too fearful, not to unman him."
3717,"The edge of the whirl was represented by a broad belt of gleaming spray; but no particle of this slipped into the mouth of the terrific funnel, whose interior, as far as the eye could fathom it, was a smooth, shining, and jet black wall of water, inclined to the horizon at an angle of some forty five degrees, speeding dizzily round and round with a swaying and sweltering motion, and sending forth to the winds an appalling voice, half shriek, half roar, such as not even the mighty cataract of Niagara ever lifts up in its agony to Heaven."
3718,But man is a strange animal.
3719,"We only realised, with the blackest of apprehensions, that the apparently disembodied chatter was beyond a doubt in the Dutch language."
3720,Indeed the locality of our retirement had been carefully kept a secret from my own former associates; and it had been many years since Dupin had ceased to know or be known in Paris.
3721,"Besides all this, there was a vast quantity of solid gold ornaments; nearly two hundred massive finger and earrings; rich chains thirty of these, if I remember; eighty three very large and heavy crucifixes; five gold censers of great value; a prodigious golden punch bowl, ornamented with richly chased vine leaves and Bacchanalian figures; with two sword handles exquisitely embossed, and many other smaller articles which I cannot recollect."
3722,A little reading of the 'Dial' will carry you a great way.
3723,"I was merciless, but am pitiful."
3724,"I have mentioned some few of the more prominent and august calamities on record; but in these it is the extent, not less than the character of the calamity, which so vividly impresses the fancy."
3725,"As I sat, a train of reflection occurred to me which led me to consider the effects of what I was now doing."
3726,"And now it is ended; there is my last victim"" I was at first touched by the expressions of his misery; yet, when I called to mind what Frankenstein had said of his powers of eloquence and persuasion, and when I again cast my eyes on the lifeless form of my friend, indignation was rekindled within me."
3727,Yet why were these gentle beings unhappy?
3728,P. What then shall I ask?
3729,I contracted my view to England.
3730,"There was some talk of searching the woods, but most of the family's friends were busy with the dead woman and the screaming man."
3731,Some few are mountebanks.
3732,A steamboat is casting loose from the wharf.
3733,Why did he write them?
3734,"Where can any of us go?"""
3735,here Legrand touched each of Jupiter's eyes.
3736,"There was time for a little conversation before leaving for breakfast and college, so Gilman hurriedly poured forth an account of his recent dreams and fears."
3737,"With this throng I mingled, though I knew I belonged with the hosts rather than with the guests."
3738,"Altogether, he looks, speaks, and acts as little like 'a misanthrope' as any man I ever saw."
3739,"I panted for enterprises beyond my childish exploits, and formed distempered dreams of future action."
3740,"The intense life that quickened my pulses, and animated my frame, had the effect, not of drawing me into the mazes of active life, but of exalting my lowliness, and of bestowing majestic proportions on insignificant objects I could have lived the life of a peasant in the same way my trifling occupations were swelled into important pursuits; my affections were impetuous and engrossing passions, and nature with all her changes was invested in divine attributes."
3741,"Their tails, at a legislative price, now bring me in a good income; for I have discovered a way, in which, by means of Macassar oil, I can force three crops in a year."
3742,"With sails abaft, the engine stopt, the vessel remained unwillingly stationary, until, after an hour's search, my poor Perdita was brought on board."
3743,"In Sir Robert married a daughter of the seventh Viscount Brightholme and was subsequently blessed with three children, the eldest and youngest of whom were never publicly seen on account of deformities in mind and body."
3744,"He manifested the greatest eagerness to be upon deck to watch for the sledge which had before appeared; but I have persuaded him to remain in the cabin, for he is far too weak to sustain the rawness of the atmosphere."
3745,"It had looked at me as it died, and its eyes had the same odd quality that marked those other eyes which had stared at me underground and excited cloudy recollections."
3746,"In , under the benign rule of the Ostrogoth Theodoric, we behold him as a teacher of rhetoric at Rome, and in he held the consulship together with Pompilius Numantius Bombastes Marcellinus Deodamnatus."
3747,"The house, I have said, was old and irregular."
3748,"Enter the house of mourning, my friend, but with kindness and affection for those who love you, and not with hatred for your enemies."
3749,"""There he lies, white and cold in death."
3750,"In his second son, Nevil, a singularly repellent person who seemed to combine the surliness of Philip Jermyn with the hauteur of the Brightholmes, ran away with a vulgar dancer, but was pardoned upon his return in the following year."
3751,"Upon awaking, and stretching forth an arm, I found beside me a loaf and a pitcher with water."
3752,"As it dangled among the cordage of the bell, I fancied it alive."
3753,"Yet could England indeed doff her lordly trappings, and be content with the democratic style of America?"
3754,In the end I did find something; something of such vague but monstrous import that I set about at once to examine the cellar of the shunned house itself with a new and excited minuteness.
3755,"I am constitutionally nervous this, with me, is a family failing, and I can't help it."
3756,"He had, he said, gone to sleep one afternoon about sundown after drinking much liquor."
3757,"His cloaths were of rusty brown, much wrinkled, and with more than one Button missing."
3758,"It was when the streets were full of people, when she went out...."
3759,they took Bennett and Tobey first . . . on each side of us. . .
3760,"I can promise you, too, some good singing."
3761,"The curtains, still clutched in his right hand as his left clawed out at me, grew taut and finally crashed down from their lofty fastenings; admitting to the room a flood of that full moonlight which the brightening of the sky had presaged."
3762,"Those who have been nauseated with a sad dose on the same august topic from the goose quill of the editor of the ""Gad Fly"" will do well to compare the two compositions."
3763,"Recurrent sheet lightnings illumed the tumbled ground and the remains of the curious low hummock which had stretched down from the wooded higher slope, but there was nothing in the chaos to shew my place of egress from the lethal catacomb."
3764,"It was his strong point his virtue; and it would have required all the logic of a Brownson to convince him that it was 'anything else.' I have shown that Touch and go Bullet head was a wise man; and the only occasion on which he did not prove infallible, was when, abandoning that legitimate home for all wise men, the East, he migrated to the city of Alexander the Great o nopolis, or some place of a similar title, out West."
3765,"Dr. Muñoz I had never heard, save for certain sounds as of some gasoline driven mechanism; since his step was soft and gentle."
3766,"""Well"" I said, after contemplating it for some minutes, ""this is a strange scarabæus, I must confess: new to me: never saw anything like it before unless it was a skull, or a death's head which it more nearly resembles than anything else that has come under my observation."""
3767,I endeavored in vain to make it follow the direction of my hand.
3768,There seemed to be a change in the old man an added element of furtiveness in the clouded brain which subtly transformed him from an object to a subject of fear though he was not one to be perturbed by any common family event.
3769,"As to the nature and appearance of the lurking fear, nothing could be gained from the scared and witless shanty dwellers."
3770,"Of ghastly marble were its walls and its towers, its columns, domes, and pavements."
3771,"To the generality of spectators he appeared careless of censure, and with high disdain to throw aside all dependance on public prejudices; but at the same time that he strode with a triumphant stride over the rest of the world, he cowered, with self disguised lowliness, to his own party, and although its chief never dared express an opinion or a feeling until he was assured that it would meet with the approbation of his companions."
3772,"""And we shall of course enjoy the benefit of the change,"" said Ryland, contemptuously."
3773,"Light grew dim in these close streets, and when the well known door was opened, the staircase was shrouded in perfect night."
3774,"""You will say now, of course, that I dreamed; but not so."
3775,"Little things make considerable excitement in little towns, which is the reason that Kingsport people talked all that spring and summer about the three unidentifiable bodies, horribly slashed as with many cutlasses, and horribly mangled as by the tread of many cruel boot heels, which the tide washed in."
3776,"Did the sun shine on any, who could enjoy its light with purer and more intense bliss?"
3777,It is true that he may not arrive; but the probability is that he will.
3778,"His mouth should not be called small, nor his ears short."
3779,"The question was no longer whether I should share Adrian's toils and danger; but in what manner I could, in Windsor and the neighbourhood, imitate the prudence and zeal which, under his government, produced order and plenty in London, and how, now pestilence had spread more widely, I could secure the health of my own family."
3780,"Eagerly clearing the sheet of its precious contents, I scanned the item in detail; and was disappointed to find it of only moderate length."
3781,"Sometimes I could not prevail on myself to enter my laboratory for several days, and at other times I toiled day and night in order to complete my work."
3782,"At all events he disappeared instantaneously from the face of the earth, and no man has seen even the ghost of him since."
3783,"The copy is brief, and being headed with ""Lost"" only, indicates No. Dick, or No. Harry Street, as the locality at which the owner may be seen."
3784,"It lay considerably to the north of west, and was where the setting sun made its way, as I have before described, into the amphitheatre, through a cleanly cut natural cleft in the granite embankment; this fissure might have been ten yards wide at its widest point, so far as the eye could trace it."
3785,"I felt that my vision grew dim, that my reason wandered; and it was only by a violent effort that I at length succeeded in nerving myself to the task which duty thus once more had pointed out."
3786,Suddenly the sunshine seemed to lessen without the intervention of any discernible cloud.
3787,"""I agree with you,"" replied the stranger; ""we are unfashioned creatures, but half made up, if one wiser, better, dearer than ourselves such a friend ought to be do not lend his aid to perfectionate our weak and faulty natures."
3788,"You perceive that, by a trifling modification thus or thus it can be adapted to the eyes in the form of spectacles, or worn in the waistcoat pocket as an eye glass."
3789,"""All dat done, Massa Will; mighty easy ting for to put de bug fru de hole look out for him dare below"" During this colloquy no portion of Jupiter's person could be seen; but the beetle, which he had suffered to descend, was now visible at the end of the string, and glistened, like a globe of burnished gold, in the last rays of the setting sun, some of which still faintly illumined the eminence upon which we stood."
3790,There are chords in the hearts of the most reckless which cannot be touched without emotion.
3791,"""Be off"" said the seventh."
3792,He would scorn to employ those of another.
3793,"Now thoroughly disgusted with my host, I ordered him to release me, and told him I would go at once."
3794,The gruff voice was that of a Frenchman.
3795,"West and I had graduated about the time of its beginning, but had remained for additional work at the summer school, so that we were in Arkham when it broke with full daemoniac fury upon the town."
3796,"""Devil,"" I exclaimed, ""do you dare approach me?"
3797,"There was a door, but it led only into a closet."
3798,"nothin' solid abaout it all like jelly, an' made o' sep'rit wrigglin' ropes pushed clost together . . ."
3799,Did we pass a valley?
3800,"I have said thus much, that in some measure I may answer your question, that I may explain to you why I am here, that I may assign to you something that shall have at least the faint aspect of a cause for my wearing these fetters, and for my tenanting this cell of the condemned."
3801,"Believe me, I was then less fitted for any communion with my fellow creatures than before."
3802,Alas we had fallen upon the most evil of all our evil days.
3803,"And thus for a time I was occupied by exploded systems, mingling, like an unadept, a thousand contradictory theories and floundering desperately in a very slough of multifarious knowledge, guided by an ardent imagination and childish reasoning, till an accident again changed the current of my ideas."
3804,"She replied, ""At Athens; even at the Athens which he loved."
3805,I thrust my arms wildly above and around me in all directions.
3806,"""And here we must refer to an observation of Le Commerciel; an observation upon which I have already, in some measure, commented."
3807,"As the mist thickened, Olney crept around to the windows on the north and west and south sides, trying them but finding them all locked."
3808,"As poet and mathematician, he would reason well; as mere mathematician, he could not have reasoned at all, and thus would have been at the mercy of the Prefect."""
3809,"To a crown, a golden be gemmed crown, I hope; and yet I dare not trust and though I dream of a crown and wake for one, ever and anon a busy devil whispers to me, that it is but a fool's cap that I seek, and that were I wise, I should trample on it, and take in its stead, that which is worth all the crowns of the east and presidentships of the west."""
3810,The valet now threw open a door and ushered me into the presence of his master.
3811,"In the evening, Adrian and I proceeded to Westminster."
3812,"In this kaleidoscopic vortex of phantasmal images were occasional snapshots, if one might use the term, of singular clearness but unaccountable heterogeneity."
3813,"And where Nyarlathotep went, rest vanished; for the small hours were rent with the screams of nightmare."
3814,"One small, fairy foot, alone visible, barely touched the earth; and, scarcely discernible in the brilliant atmosphere which seemed to encircle and enshrine her loveliness, floated a pair of the most delicately imagined wings."
3815,"""Wal, all right, ef ye feel that way abaout it."
3816,"All was serene, burning, annihilating."
3817,"Around its peak the mists play always mournfully, for mists are the memories of the gods, and the gods loved Hatheg Kla when they dwelt upon it in the old days."
3818,"From a third, which was the composition of some blind man or other, either a Greek or a Choctaw I cannot be at the pains of remembering every trifle exactly I took about fifty verses beginning with ""Achilles' wrath,"" and ""grease,"" and something else."
3819,It is the mal practice of the courts to confine evidence and discussion to the bounds of apparent relevancy.
3820,"Alone it is, a bleak point jutting in limitless space, for there the coast turns sharp where the great Miskatonic pours out of the plains past Arkham, bringing woodland legends and little quaint memories of New England's hills."
3821,"All delightful things, sublime scenery, soft breezes, exquisite music seemed to me associated with you and only through you to be pleasant to me."
3822,"Not that she was ever serious upon this point and I mention the matter at all for no better reason than that it happens, just now, to be remembered."
3823,"Again I say, I do not know what has become of Harley Warren; though I think almost hope that he is in peaceful oblivion, if there be anywhere so blessed a thing."
3824,Rather a small but still a scientific diddle is this.
3825,"I had worked hard for nearly two years, for the sole purpose of infusing life into an inanimate body."
3826,"No doubt her practical heritage and superficial knowledge of the Dark Continent had caused her to flout Sir Wade's talk of the interior, a thing which such a man would not be likely to forgive."
3827,"The darkness was much dissipated and in the east where the clouds were least dense the moon was visible behind the thin grey cloud The moon is behind, and at the full And yet she looks both small and dull."
3828,"""Hem oh well quite la même cho o ose, as we say in France."
3829,But first let me tell of the rooms in which it was held.
3830,"I shall shed no more tears for my task is almost fulfilled, and I am about to be rewarded for long and most burthensome suffering."
3831,"In spite of her tender nursing, the health of Adrian perceptibly declined."
3832,"I thought of those very extreme Innsmouth types said to be hidden in crumbling, centuried warrens near the waterfront."
3833,"He looked upon me, however, with some degree of severity, and then, turning towards my conductors, he asked who appeared as witnesses on this occasion."
3834,"""The view of the earth, at this period of my ascension, was beautiful indeed."
3835,"I left the house, the horrid scene of the last night's contention, and walked on the beach of the sea, which I almost regarded as an insuperable barrier between me and my fellow creatures; nay, a wish that such should prove the fact stole across me."
3836,"""I would be an ungrateful villain if I did,"" I replied with enthusiasm."
3837,"Might it not actually be another U boat, offering possibilities of rescue?"
3838,"I told them of my dream, but they were not interested till I spoke of the weird sounds I thought I had heard."
3839,"I had tutored myself, and was resolved by no outward sign to disclose my internal agitation."
3840,"It was deducible from what they knew, that to a being of infinite understanding one to whom the perfection of the algebraic analysis lay unfolded there could be no difficulty in tracing every impulse given the air and the ether through the air to the remotest consequences at any even infinitely remote epoch of time."
3841,"My return had only been delayed so long, from an unwillingness to leave Clerval in a strange place, before he had become acquainted with any of its inhabitants."
3842,"Natheless at the next full moon I boarded the White Ship, and with the reluctant bearded man left the happy harbour for untravelled seas."
3843,I felt this delay very bitterly; for I longed to see my native town and my beloved friends.
3844,"On the left wrist were two circular excoriations, apparently the effect of ropes, or of a rope in more than one volution."
3845,"On seeing me, he darted towards me, and tearing the girl from my arms, hastened towards the deeper parts of the wood."
3846,"An even greater mystery is the absolute homogeneity of the crabbed, archaic writing found on a wide range of papers whose conditions and watermarks suggest age differences of at least to years."
3847,"I am a singer of songs that I learned in the far city, and my calling is to make beauty with the things remembered of childhood."
3848,"To the right and left, as far as the eye could reach, there lay outstretched, like ramparts of the world, lines of horridly black and beetling cliff, whose character of gloom was but the more forcibly illustrated by the surf which reared high up against its white and ghastly crest, howling and shrieking forever."
3849,"There is no passion in nature so demoniacally impatient, as that of him who, shuddering upon the edge of a precipice, thus meditates a Plunge."
3850,"I was hastening to anticipate a second disturbance, when a page of Mentoni's household burst into the room, and faltered out, in a voice choking with emotion, the incoherent words, ""My mistress my mistress Poisoned poisoned Oh, beautiful oh, beautiful Aphrodite"" Bewildered, I flew to the ottoman, and endeavored to arouse the sleeper to a sense of the startling intelligence."
3851,"Idris appeared to be the only being who could resist her mother, notwithstanding the extreme mildness of her character."
3852,"After hand cuffing him, they searched his room, or rather rooms, for it appears he occupied all the mansarde."
3853,"And yet the men in olive drab will always remember that night, and will speak of The Street as they tell of it to their grandchildren; for many of them were sent there toward morning on a mission unlike that which they had expected."
3854,"Some of the neighbouring families who had heard tales of old Sir Wade Jermyn's unseen Portuguese wife declared that her Latin blood must be shewing itself; but most persons merely sneered at his sensitiveness to beauty, attributing it to his music hall mother, who was socially unrecognised."
3855,"""'Do you consider,' said his companion to him, 'that you will be obliged to pay three months' rent and to lose the produce of your garden?"
3856,"That the tradition bound elders should ignore his singular results on animals, and persist in their denial of the possibility of reanimation, was inexpressibly disgusting and almost incomprehensible to a youth of West's logical temperament."
3857,"Rap out the sentence, with a huge oath, and by way of ultimatum at the good for nothing dunder headed villain who couldn't understand your plain English in relation to the chicken bone."
3858,"Perhaps the ornaments had, after all, come from some strange island; and possibly the wild stories were lies of the bygone Obed himself rather than of this antique toper."
3859,"I followed his glance, and beheld just above us on the loose plaster of the ancient ceiling a large irregular spot of wet crimson which seemed to spread even as I viewed it."
3860,"In halls such as these in a bridal chamber such as this I passed, with the Lady of Tremaine, the unhallowed hours of the first month of our marriage passed them with but little disquietude."
3861,"Old Keziah, he reflected, might have had excellent reasons for living in a room with peculiar angles; for was it not through certain angles that she claimed to have gone outside the boundaries of the world of space we know?"
3862,He looked curiously at me for a second as he returned forty cents change without speaking.
3863,"People generally suspected him of knowing something about his mother's disappearance, and very few ever approached his neighbourhood now."
3864,"She was not sanguine, but secure; and the expectation of seeing the lover she had banished, the husband, friend, heart's companion from whom she had long been alienated, wrapt her senses in delight, her mind in placidity."
3865,"At my evident ignorance of his meaning, the pitchy eyes once more flashed malevolently at me, until, helpless as I saw my opponent to be, I trembled as I watched him."
3866,"The teeming brain of childhood requires no external world of incident to occupy or amuse it; and the apparently dismal monotony of a school was replete with more intense excitement than my riper youth has derived from luxury, or my full manhood from crime."
3867,"I have something to tell you, yet scarcely know how to tell it, or whether I should tell it at all."
3868,And could not such words from her whom I fondly prized before every other gift of fortune suffice to chase away the fiend that lurked in my heart?
3869,"Villain at Rome, with how untimely, yet with how spectral an officiousness, stepped he in between me and my ambition At Vienna, too at Berlin and at Moscow Where, in truth, had I not bitter cause to curse him within my heart?"
3870,And in this expectation I was not at all deceived.
3871,"Since our encampment here, she daily, hourly visits my thoughts."
3872,"Throwing them aside, I soon uncovered a quantity of building stone and mortar."
3873,"After the entombment we were all somewhat depressed, and spent the afternoon at the bar of the Commercial House; where West, though shaken by the death of his chief opponent, chilled the rest of us with references to his notorious theories."
3874,"Evelyn, a laughing cherub, a gamesome infant, without idea of pain or sorrow, would, shaking back his light curls from his eyes, make the halls re echo with his merriment, and in a thousand artless ways attract our attention to his play."
3875,"Glad to get off so easily, and confused by a hundred duties pressing upon him all at once, he discharges the claim forthwith."
3876,"""I presume it is supererogatory to seek here eyeing the folds of the garment with a bitter smile for any farther evidence of your skill."
3877,"There was much of degradation in this: for even vice and virtue had lost their attributes life life the continuation of our animal mechanism was the Alpha and Omega of the desires, the prayers, the prostrate ambition of human race."
3878,"I wished, as it were, to procrastinate all that related to my feelings of affection until the great object, which swallowed up every habit of my nature, should be completed."
3879,"""They whistle jest in tune with my breathin' naow,"" he said, ""an' I guess they're gittin' ready to ketch my soul."
3880,"In spite of resentment, by day and night she figured to herself the toils and dangers of the wanderers."
3881,"As the old man spoke, I became aware of a loud and gradually increasing sound, like the moaning of a vast herd of buffaloes upon an American prairie; and at the same moment I perceived that what seamen term the chopping character of the ocean beneath us, was rapidly changing into a current which set to the eastward."
3882,"Finally I saw a green litten plain far below me, and discerned on it the twisted towers of a city built in no fashion I had ever known or read of or dreamed of."
3883,"The staircase had been surmounted, and there were now only three or four more upward steps intervening between us and the summit."
3884,"I vowed, with energy and truth, to devote myself in life and death to the restoration and welfare of Adrian."
3885,"The old woman had been dragging the youth, while around the feet of the negro a tame rat was rubbing and weaving in the brown mud."
3886,"In the excitement of my opium dreams for I was habitually fettered in the shackles of the drug I would call aloud upon her name, during the silence of the night, or among the sheltered recesses of the glens by day, as if, through the wild eagerness, the solemn passion, the consuming ardor of my longing for the departed, I could restore her to the pathway she had abandoned ah, could it be forever?"
3887,"Barzai and Atal went out of Hatheg into the stony desert despite the prayers of peasants, and talked of earth's gods by their campfires at night."
3888,Overreaching the wide horizon as the rainbow How is it that from beauty I have derived a type of unloveliness?
3889,"The worm was carefully fed on mulberries kind of fruit resembling a water melon and, when sufficiently fat, was crushed in a mill."
3890,"Country and village people, however, canvassed the place with infinite care; overturning everything in the house, sounding ponds and brooks, beating down bushes, and ransacking the nearby forests."
3891,"As she walked along, seemingly incommoded by the burden, a young man met her, whose countenance expressed a deeper despondence."
3892,"Pressing the spring, I gently raised the sash for a few inches; the head went up with it, remaining firm in its bed."
3893,"Those haunting notes I had remembered, and had often hummed and whistled inaccurately to myself; so when the player at length laid down his bow I asked him if he would render some of them."
3894,"Well meaning philosophers had taught him to look into the logical relations of things, and analyse the processes which shaped his thoughts and fancies."
3895,"I did not know the names of the towns that I was to pass through, nor could I ask information from a single human being; but I did not despair."
3896,"The first ranks had muskets; some were mounted, but their arms were such as they had seized during their advance, their horses those they had taken from the peasantry; there was no uniformity, and little obedience, but their shouts and wild gestures showed the untamed spirit that inspired them."
3897,"Now, then, did my spirit fully and freely burn with more than all the fires of her own."
3898,"That man, oddly enough, had been through the terrors of the Great War without having incurred any fright so thorough."
3899,"But Mr. Ellison imagined that the richest, and altogether the most natural and most suitable province, had been blindly neglected."
3900,"Great holes secretly are digged where earth's pores ought to suffice, and things have learnt to walk that ought to crawl."""
3901,"And then I bent over her and whispered, 'Awake, fairest, thy lover is near he who would give his life but to obtain one look of affection from thine eyes; my beloved, awake' ""The sleeper stirred; a thrill of terror ran through me."
3902,"Birch acquired a limitation and changed his business in , yet never discussed the case when he could avoid it."
3903,"This I thought strange, for there was a stiff southerly breeze; but as ""the circumstances"" were not forthcoming, although I pumped for them with much perseverance, I had nothing to do but to return home and digest my impatience at leisure."
3904,"Our evening march, more calm, was yet more delightful than the morning restlessness of spirit."
3905,Continue for the present to write to me by every opportunity: I may receive your letters on some occasions when I need them most to support my spirits.
3906,"Turning to the number which designated the oval portrait, I there read the vague and quaint words which follow: ""She was a maiden of rarest beauty, and not more lovely than full of glee."
3907,Eliot old Reid was right.
3908,"No wood, however, was placed on the earth, which formed the floor, but it was dry; and although the wind entered it by innumerable chinks, I found it an agreeable asylum from the snow and rain."
3909,"The faces of many of the inhabitants were familiar to me; in the towns, plains, hills, and defiles of these countries, I had enjoyed unspeakable delight, as I journied through them the year before."
3910,"The head had been removed, so that the possibilities of quasi intelligent life in the trunk might be investigated."
3911,"After a slight repose, during which the spirits of the dead hovered round and instigated me to toil and revenge, I prepared for my journey."
3912,This craving gathers strength as the moments fly.
3913,"The bodies had to be exceedingly fresh, or the slight decomposition of brain tissue would render perfect reanimation impossible."
3914,"The golden splendour arose, and weary nature awoke to suffer yet another day of heat and thirsty decay."
3915,The Elmer Fryes had been erased from Dunwich.
3916,"He says all hope is dead to him, and I know that it is dead to me, so we are both equally fitted for death."
3917,"Yet, before I departed, there was a task to perform, on which I shuddered to reflect; I must pack up my chemical instruments, and for that purpose I must enter the room which had been the scene of my odious work, and I must handle those utensils the sight of which was sickening to me."
3918,"In an instant, a treasure of incalculable value lay gleaming before us."
3919,I paused; I considered; and I began to doubt.
3920,"And let us now trace the boat picked up by the bargeman on the morning of Monday the twenty third of June, and which was removed from the barge office, without the cognizance of the officer in attendance, and without the rudder, at some period prior to the discovery of the corpse."
3921,"This is an ordinary, although an atrocious instance of crime."
3922,"He rubbed the arm and found hair upon it something as indefinite, we think, as can readily be imagined as little conclusive as finding an arm in the sleeve."
3923,"We cannot, therefore, doubt Mr. Maelzel's ability, and we must necessarily suppose that he intentionally suffered his Chess Player to remain the same artificial and unnatural figure which Baron Kempelen no doubt also through design originally made it."
3924,I remember the buzz of curiosity which his advent excited within the college precincts on the night of the twenty fifth of June.
3925,"""Eh ya ya ya yahaah e'yayayayaaaa . . ."
3926,"At the same time, Lord Raymond, by some unlooked for chance, became the possessor of an immense fortune in England, whither he returned, crowned with glory, to receive the meed of honour and distinction before denied to his pretensions."
3927,"""Yet I cannot ask you to renounce your country and friends to fulfil this task; and now that you are returning to England, you will have little chance of meeting with him."
3928,"I shuddered at the thought of those vital processes, worn as they were by eighty one years of continuous functioning, in conflict with unknown forces of which the youngest and strongest system might well be afraid; but in another moment reflected that dreams are only dreams, and that these uncomfortable visions could be, at most, no more than my uncle's reaction to the investigations and expectations which had lately filled our minds to the exclusion of all else."
3929,"Or after life No, no, I will not persuade myself to die, I may not, dare not."
3930,"For a moment I kept sight of the glow of his lantern, and heard the rustle of the wire as he laid it down after him; but the glow soon disappeared abruptly, as if a turn in the stone staircase had been encountered, and the sound died away almost as quickly."
3931,"He had stopped at Elwood's door on the way, but had found all dark within."
3932,"I've seen sights before, but there was one thing too much here."
3933,"At other times he worked in the garden, but as there was little to do in the frosty season, he read to the old man and Agatha."
3934,"But do not mourn, dear girl."
3935,"""I made some use of 'em,"" he would say as he tried to mend a torn black letter page with paste prepared on the rusty kitchen stove, ""but the boy's fitten to make better use of 'em."
3936,"""I have lived my last winter, and the date of this year, , will be carved upon my tomb."
3937,"This, indeed, proved to be true; and the party were seen to gain the minor elevation only a short time after the invisible blasphemy had passed it."
3938,"Especially was it unwise to rave of the living things that might haunt such a place; of creatures half of the jungle and half of the impiously aged city fabulous creatures which even a Pliny might describe with scepticism; things that might have sprung up after the great apes had overrun the dying city with the walls and the pillars, the vaults and the weird carvings."
3939,"She returned my bow, however, under the impression that, by some odd accident, I had discovered her identity."
3940,"Frost would blunt the arrows of pestilence, and enchain the furious elements; and the land would in spring throw off her garment of snow, released from her menace of destruction."
3941,Day dawned; and I directed my steps towards the town.
3942,"He was leaning with his arms folded, over the rim of the car; and with a pipe in his mouth, at which he puffed leisurely, seemed to be upon excellent terms with himself and the universe."
3943,This was the commencement of a nervous fever which confined me for several months.
3944,"and what is it you are talking about?"" ""Az vor ow I com'd ere,"" replied the figure, ""dat iz none of your pizzness; and as vor vat I be talking apout, I be talk apout vat I tink proper; and as vor who I be, vy dat is de very ting I com'd here for to let you zee for yourzelf."""
3945,"""That evidence,"" he observed, ""was hardly required in so glaring a case, but I am glad of it, and, indeed, none of our judges like to condemn a criminal upon circumstantial evidence, be it ever so decisive."""
3946,"He won me over to his party, heart and soul."
3947,"P. I wish you would explain yourself, Mr. Vankirk."
3948,"I endeavored, but of course in vain, to look through the aperture."
3949,"""Can't do"" said I, ""what do you mean?"
3950,"Happiness, love and peace, walked the forest paths, and tempered the atmosphere."
3951,"""Thus I relieve thee, my creator,"" he said, and placed his hated hands before my eyes, which I flung from me with violence; ""thus I take from thee a sight which you abhor."
3952,I entered the room where the corpse lay and was led up to the coffin.
3953,L'histoire en est brève.
3954,"The stuffed goddess, he wrote, would arrive duly packed about a month after receipt of the letter."
3955,I performed the first part of my journey on horseback.
3956,"To chambers of painted state farewell To midnight revelry, and the panting emulation of beauty, to costly dress and birth day shew, to title and the gilded coronet, farewell Farewell to the giant powers of man, to knowledge that could pilot the deep drawing bark through the opposing waters of shoreless ocean, to science that directed the silken balloon through the pathless air, to the power that could put a barrier to mighty waters, and set in motion wheels, and beams, and vast machinery, that could divide rocks of granite or marble, and make the mountains plain Farewell to the arts, to eloquence, which is to the human mind as the winds to the sea, stirring, and then allaying it; farewell to poetry and deep philosophy, for man's imagination is cold, and his enquiring mind can no longer expatiate on the wonders of life, for ""there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom in the grave, whither thou goest"" to the graceful building, which in its perfect proportion transcended the rude forms of nature, the fretted gothic and massy saracenic pile, to the stupendous arch and glorious dome, the fluted column with its capital, Corinthian, Ionic, or Doric, the peristyle and fair entablature, whose harmony of form is to the eye as musical concord to the ear farewell to sculpture, where the pure marble mocks human flesh, and in the plastic expression of the culled excellencies of the human shape, shines forth the god farewell to painting, the high wrought sentiment and deep knowledge of the artists's mind in pictured canvas to paradisaical scenes, where trees are ever vernal, and the ambrosial air rests in perpetual glow: to the stamped form of tempest, and wildest uproar of universal nature encaged in the narrow frame, O farewell Farewell to music, and the sound of song; to the marriage of instruments, where the concord of soft and harsh unites in sweet harmony, and gives wings to the panting listeners, whereby to climb heaven, and learn the hidden pleasures of the eternals Farewell to the well trod stage; a truer tragedy is enacted on the world's ample scene, that puts to shame mimic grief: to high bred comedy, and the low buffoon, farewell Man may laugh no more."
3957,"This was very gruesome and abnormal, so we confined Müller in irons and had him soundly whipped."
3958,"A great central orb was, in fact, suggested; so far Mudler was consistent."
3959,"The consciousness of being had grown hourly more indistinct, and that of mere locality had, in great measure, usurped its position."
3960,"You are dear to us, because you wear the frail shape of humanity; each one among you will find a friend and host among these forces."
3961,"Sleeping thus under the beneficent eye of heaven, can evil visit thee, O Earth, or grief cradle to their graves thy luckless children?"
3962,"The next April sickness occurred among the children, and Abigail and Ruth died before the month was over."
3963,"It was, indeed, an exceedingly singular happening; though after all a simple one."
3964,"He was, as it were, now awakened from his long, visionary sleep, and he felt some what like one of the seven sleepers, or like Nourjahad, in that sweet imitation of an eastern tale: Diana was gone; his friends were changed or dead, and now on his awakening I was all that he had to love on earth."
3965,"The scene was perfectly solitary; a few boats were returning towards land, but I sailed away from them."
3966,"In short, no position can be attained, from which an artistical eye, looking steadily, will not find matter of offence, in what is technically termed the composition of a natural landscape."
3967,"I know not how the entanglement took place, but so it was."
3968,"It was from the tethered horses they had screamed, not neighed, but screamed... and there was no light down there, nor the sound of any human thing, to shew why they had done so."
3969,"Lavinia Whateley had no known husband, but according to the custom of the region made no attempt to disavow the child; concerning the other side of whose ancestry the country folk might and did speculate as widely as they chose."
3970,"Then I half fancied I heard a sound myself; though it was not a horrible sound, but rather an exquisitely low and infinitely distant musical note, suggesting a player in one of the neighbouring houses, or in some abode beyond the lofty wall over which I had never been able to look."
3971,"But on the day that was to fulfil my wishes and my destiny, she was melancholy, and a presentiment of evil pervaded her; and perhaps also she thought of the dreadful secret which I had promised to reveal to her on the following day."
3972,"With an anxiety that almost amounted to agony, I collected the instruments of life around me, that I might infuse a spark of being into the lifeless thing that lay at my feet."
3973,I allus says Col' Spring Glen ain't no healthy nor decent place.
3974,"Turning towards the men, he said, ""What do you mean?"
3975,"It will then be seen that the movement of the arm, which, in all other cases, immediately succeeds the motion in the shoulder, is withheld is not made although Maelzel has not yet performed, on the board of the Automaton, any move corresponding to the withdrawal of the antagonist."
3976,Only one wish now haunted the mind of the dying man; that twigs from certain olive trees in the grove be buried by his resting place close to his head.
3977,"We had been at sea seven days, and were now off Cape Hatteras, when there came a tremendously heavy blow from the southwest."
3978,"Does it not seem singular how they should have failed to deduce from the works of God the vital fact that a perfect consistency must be an absolute truth How plain has been our progress since the late announcement of this proposition Investigation has been taken out of the hands of the ground moles and given, as a task, to the true and only true thinkers, the men of ardent imagination."
3979,"And amid the crowd, and the clamor, and the general intricacy and confusion amid the million of black and yellow men, turbaned and robed, and of flowing beard, there roamed a countless multitude of holy filleted bulls, while vast legions of the filthy but sacred ape clambered, chattering and shrieking, about the cornices of the mosques, or clung to the minarets and oriels."
3980,"I say, when they git ready . . ."
3981,"With eagerness one turns toward the east, with angry impatience one marks the unchequered darkness; the crowing of a cock, that sound of glee during day time, comes wailing and untuneable the creaking of rafters, and slight stir of invisible insect is heard and felt as the signal and type of desolation."
3982,"Sometimes it would be in a desart; in a populous city; at a ball; we should perhaps meet in a vessel; and his first words constantly were, ""My daughter, I love thee"" What extactic moments have I passed in these dreams How many tears I have shed; how often have I laughed aloud."
3983,"What are we, the inhabitants of this globe, least among the many that people infinite space?"
3984,"At length, having found these storms injurious to his health, he fitted up a cellar into which he could retreat from their wildest pandemonium."
3985,"I asked, with a sad foreboding at heart."
3986,"He studied the timber and plaster walls for traces of cryptic designs at every accessible spot where the paper had peeled, and within a week managed to get the eastern attic room where Keziah was held to have practiced her spells."
3987,"The author of the 'Oil of Bob' is, we hear, Thingum Bob, Esq., a gentleman of high genius, and a scholar."
3988,"But the weather was serene, and as I walked on I fell into no unpleasing reveries."
3989,It was an impulsive movement to gain time for thought to make sure that my vision had not deceived me to calm and subdue my fancy for a more sober and more certain gaze.
3990,"And that night my dreams of piping flutes and marble peristyles came to a sudden and disquieting end; for upon the city in the valley I saw a pestilence descend, and then a frightful avalanche of wooded slopes that covered the dead bodies in the streets and left unburied only the temple of Artemis on the high peak, where the aged moon priestess Cleis lay cold and silent with a crown of ivory on her silver head."
3991,"Indeed, it never was rented after a series of deaths culminating in , which the excitement of the war tended to throw into obscurity."
3992,In the present case your application is the most obvious thing in the world.
3993,What then became of me?
3994,"The rush for the ""sole paper which had the news,"" was something beyond even the prodigious; and, in fact, if as some assert the ""Victoria"" did not absolutely accomplish the voyage recorded, it will be difficult to assign a reason why she should not have accomplished it."
3995,"""Nor are outward objects alone the receptacles of the Spirit of Good."
3996,"There was a dim mist over all the earth, and a warm glow upon the waters, and amid the rich October leaves of the forest, a rainbow from the firmament had surely fallen."
3997,"Can it be possible that this planet has actually spawned such things; that human eyes have truly seen, as objective flesh, what man has hitherto known only in febrile phantasy and tenuous legend?"
3998,"Five months after their arrival in England, he committed suicide."
3999,"Dr. Armitage knew, from the repeated failures of his colleagues, that the riddle was a deep and complex one; and that no simple mode of solution could merit even a trial."
4000,"This spot, dedicated to sweetest recollections, the deserted house and neglected garden were well adapted to nurse my melancholy."
4001,"As for one lady, she obeyed Monsieur Maillard to the letter, and thrusting out her tongue, which was an excessively long one, held it very resignedly, with both hands, until the end of the entertainment."
4002,The slope of the sides of the vast funnel became momently less and less steep.
4003,"Fear was upon the whole pitiful crowd, for they did not know what the law would exact of them if the affair were not hushed up; and they were grateful when West, in spite of my involuntary shudders, offered to get rid of the thing quietly for a purpose I knew too well."
4004,"The fury of the tempest immediately died away, and a dead calm sullenly succeeded."
4005,But he is a good creature after all.
4006,"He was soon disliked even more decidedly than his mother and grandsire, and all conjectures about him were spiced with references to the bygone magic of Old Whateley, and how the hills once shook when he shrieked the dreadful name of Yog Sothoth in the midst of a circle of stones with a great book open in his arms before him."
4007,The readiness with which I fell into a plan of action proves that I must have been subconsciously fearing some menace and considering possible avenues of escape for hours.
4008,"We feared that the cold weather would come on and halt our explorations, for all agreed that the daemon was generally quiet in winter."
4009,"Local history forbade such a doubt, although no ghostly evidence was ever found by such investigators as had visited the building after some especially vivid tale of the squatters."
4010,"Promise,"" and he raised himself painfully, and seized my arm, ""promise to bury me with them."""
4011,"If his appearance even inspired us with hope, it only rendered the state of her mind more painful."
4012,Never to suffer would have been never to have been blessed.
4013,"The moves of the Turk are not made at regular intervals of time, but accommodate themselves to the moves of the antagonist although this point of regularity so important in all kinds of mechanical contrivance, might have been readily brought about by limiting the time allowed for the moves of the antagonist."
4014,"It was not quite dead, but twitched silently and spasmodically while its chest heaved in monstrous unison with the mad piping of the expectant whippoorwills outside."
4015,They seemed sullenly banded together in some sort of fellowship and understanding despising the world as if they had access to other and preferable spheres of entity.
4016,The uproar increases.
4017,"The drawers of a bureau, which stood in one corner were open, and had been, apparently, rifled, although many articles still remained in them."
4018,"A closer scrutiny filled me with sensations I cannot express; for despite its enormous magnitude, and its position in an abyss which had yawned at the bottom of the sea since the world was young, I perceived beyond a doubt that the strange object was a well shaped monolith whose massive bulk had known the workmanship and perhaps the worship of living and thinking creatures."
4019,"I signified my readiness to proceed, but our guides protested against such a measure."
4020,"Again the infinitude of the shrieking twilight abysses flashed past him, but in another second he thought he was in a dark, muddy, unknown alley of foetid odours, with the rotting walls of ancient houses towering up on every hand."
4021,"I had no car, but was travelling by train, trolley, and motor coach, always seeking the cheapest possible route."
4022,The young husband was frantic with grief but circumstances imperatively forbade the deferring his voyage to New York.
4023,"Already do I see,"" he continued, looking up mournfully, ""the bourne and precipitate edge of my existence, over which I plunge into the gloomy mystery of the life to come."
4024,"""Feed it reg'lar, Willy, an' mind the quantity; but dun't let it grow too fast fer the place, fer ef it busts quarters or gits aout afore ye opens to Yog Sothoth, it's all over an' no use."
4025,"Stranger still, some were in modern dialects, English and Italian."
4026,"Now these peculiar movements of the head and eyes are movements customary with persons engaged in meditation, and the ingenious Baron Kempelen would have adapted these movements were the machine a pure machine to occasions proper for their display that is, to occasions of complexity."
4027,"The air now became intolerably hot, and was loaded with spiral exhalations similar to those arising from heat iron."
4028,My fame is universal.
4029,"In the widest and noblest sense, he was a poet."
4030,"I have said enough to convince you that ciphers of this nature are readily soluble, and to give you some insight into the rationale of their development."
4031,Prepare to hear of occurrences which are usually deemed marvellous.
4032,"he, the petitmaître no, the Deity who sat as if carved in marble, et qui sourit, with his pale countenance, si amèrement?"
4033,"There were shelves full of theological and classical books, and another bookcase containing treatises on magic Paracelsus, Albertus Magnus, Trithemius, Hermes Trismegistus, Borellus, and others in strange alphabets whose titles I could not decipher."
4034,"At first I proceeded with extreme caution, for the floor, although seemingly of solid material, was treacherous with slime."
4035,"And lo from among those sable draperies where the sounds of the song departed, there came forth a dark and undefined shadow a shadow such as the moon, when low in heaven, might fashion from the figure of a man: but it was the shadow neither of man nor of God, nor of any familiar thing."
4036,"It was a subject of regret to me whenever we were joined by a third person, yet if I turned with a disturbed look towards my father, his eyes fixed on me and beaming with tenderness instantly restored joy to my heart."
4037,"Klenze hurried to the engine room, finding the fuel tank and most of the mechanism shattered, and Engineers Raabe and Schneider instantly killed."
4038,"""Why do you answer me so roughly?"""
4039,Soon after my arrival in the hovel I discovered some papers in the pocket of the dress which I had taken from your laboratory.
4040,"That night I passed the gateway to a vortex of twisted time and vision, and when morning found me in the attic room I saw in the walls and shelves and fittings that which I had never seen before."
4041,"Well, I should say that the really weird artist has a kind of vision which makes models, or summons up what amounts to actual scenes from the spectral world he lives in."
4042,"His croak thus o o o o gh o o o o gh was the finest note in the world B flat; and when he put his elbows upon the table thus after taking a glass or two of wine and distended his mouth, thus, and rolled up his eyes, thus, and winked them with excessive rapidity, thus, why then, sir, I take it upon myself to say, positively, that you would have been lost in admiration of the genius of the man."""
4043,"With Cyclopean rage it tore through the soil above that damnable pit, blinding and deafening me, yet not wholly reducing me to a coma."
4044,"The intellectual or logical man, rather than the understanding or observant man, set himself to imagine designs to dictate purposes to God."
4045,"I remembered also the nervous fever with which I had been seized just at the time that I dated my creation, and which would give an air of delirium to a tale otherwise so utterly improbable."
4046,"In spasms such as these he had usually found relief from the application of mustard to the nervous centres, but to night this had been attempted in vain."
4047,"We boys used to overrun the place, and I can still recall my youthful terror not only at the morbid strangeness of this sinister vegetation, but at the eldritch atmosphere and odour of the dilapidated house, whose unlocked front door was often entered in quest of shudders."
4048,"But for this consideration I should have begun my attempts with the Spanish and French, as the tongues in which a secret of this kind would most naturally have been written by a pirate of the Spanish main."
4049,But of them old Castro dared not speak much.
4050,great bulgin' eyes all over it . . .
4051,"The document, indeed, ended in much confusion; and I was forced to ransack both the Rhode Island Historical Society and Shepley Library before I could find a local door which the name Etienne Roulet would unlock."
4052,"They were her life; dearer than a spot consecrated to love, dearer than all else the earth contained."
4053,"She had even sent me, in reply, one penned by her own exquisite fingers."
4054,"When Nature could endure wakefulness no longer, it was with a struggle that I consented to sleep for I shuddered to reflect that, upon awaking, I might find myself the tenant of a grave."
4055,"But my eyes were the keenest in the city, despite the long hours I gave each day to the study of the Pnakotic manuscripts and the wisdom of the Zobnarian Fathers; so my friend, desiring not to doom me to inaction, rewarded me with that duty which was second to nothing in importance."
4056,"Well, during two nights not consecutive while I lay awake, I clearly saw Mrs. W., about eleven o'clock upon each night, steal cautiously from the state room of Mr. W., and enter the extra room, where she remained until daybreak, when she was called by her husband and went back."
4057,"It was most narrow at its northern extremity, opening out as it tended southwardly, but with no very precise regularity."
4058,It was here that Charles I. had collected his forces.
4059,He reaches the grave.
4060,"As he bathed and changed clothes he tried to recall what he had dreamed after the scene in the violet litten space, but nothing definite would crystallise in his mind."
4061,"My answer to these questions must needs appear to you unsatisfactory, yet they have sufficed to lead me on, day after day, enduring every wretchedness, rather than by such means to seek relief."
4062,Now I'll put you in the way of accomplishing this point.
4063,"The tide of love towards her appeared to flow again; he could never forget, how once he had been devoted to her, making her the shrine and storehouse wherein to place every thought and every sentiment."
4064,"It has been, or should be remarked, that, in the manner of the true gentleman, we are always aware of a difference from the bearing of the vulgar, without being at once precisely able to determine in what such difference consists."
4065,"This fact fully proves, that the intervention of Maelzel, in performing the moves of the antagonist on the board of the Automaton, is not essential to the movements of the Automaton, that its movements are regulated by mind by some person who sees the board of the antagonist, that its movements are not regulated by the mind of Maelzel, whose back was turned towards the antagonist at the withdrawal of his move. ."
4066,"At length all was veiled in the deep obscurity of blackest night; I became weary and knowing that my servant was to sleep that night at the neighbouring village, so that my absence would alarm no one; and that I was safe in this wild spot from every intruder, I resolved to spend the night where I was."
4067,As I sat deciphering the execrable French I felt more lenient toward the old man.
4068,"He was conspicuous for his conduct and choice of position in a battle fought in the plains of Thrace, on the banks of the Hebrus, which was to decide the fate of Islam."
4069,"Then Wesley Corey, who had taken the glass, cried out that Armitage was adjusting the sprayer which Rice held, and that something must be about to happen."
4070,"""Gawd,"" he gasped, ""I telled 'em not ter go daown into the glen, an' I never thought nobody'd dew it with them tracks an' that smell an' the whippoorwills a screechin' daown thar in the dark o' noonday. . ."
4071,"He slowly recovered himself; yet, at last, as one might from the effects of poison, he lifted his head from above the vapours of fever and passion into the still atmosphere of calm reflection."
4072,"He would, he wrote, defray the difference in rent."
4073,"""As he approached his desire of seeing me,"" he said, ""became more and more ardent, and he felt that the moment when he should first clasp me in his arms would be the happiest of his life."""
4074,"As the evening wore away he became more and more absorbed in reverie, from which no sallies of mine could arouse him."
4075,"Sir Alfred Jermyn was a baronet before his fourth birthday, but his tastes never matched his title."
4076,"Balbutius, had also come from Calagurris, where the permanent station was."
4077,"It is doubtful whether he was touched at all by the horror and exquisite weirdness of his position, but the bald fact of imprisonment so far from the daily paths of men was enough to exasperate him thoroughly."
4078,"It is a radical, a primitive impulse elementary."
4079,"His fancy had not gone so far as mine, but he felt that the place was rare in its imaginative potentialities, and worthy of note as an inspiration in the field of the grotesque and macabre."
4080,There was a Grand Turk from Stamboul.
4081,"Separated from them; exalted in my heart; sole possessor of my affections; single object of my hopes, the best half of myself."
4082,"All was silent in and around the cottage; it was an excellent opportunity; yet, when I proceeded to execute my plan, my limbs failed me and I sank to the ground."
4083,"To be sure, our men of science are not quite so bigoted as those of old: oh, I have something so queer to tell you on this topic."
4084,The physician with the iron grey beard who comes each day to my room once told a visitor that this decision marked the beginning of a pitiful monomania; but I will leave final judgment to my readers when they shall have learnt all.
4085,"I endeavored to shriek; and my lips and my parched tongue moved convulsively together in the attempt but no voice issued from the cavernous lungs, which oppressed as if by the weight of some incumbent mountain, gasped and palpitated, with the heart, at every elaborate and struggling inspiration."
4086,"My sister was by nature destitute of the common feelings of anxious, petulant jealousy."
4087,"She studiously shut out all prospect of the future, and cradled her heart in present blessings."
4088,"Neither yours nor any man's death is needed to consummate the series of my being and accomplish that which must be done, but it requires my own."
4089,"Of these groups our two seamen formed, I think, the most interesting, if not the most conspicuous."
4090,"He walked impassive through the cities of men, and sighed because no vista seemed fully real; because every flash of yellow sunlight on tall roofs and every glimpse of balustraded plazas in the first lamps of evening served only to remind him of dreams he had once known, and to make him homesick for ethereal lands he no longer knew how to find."
4091,"Now this, I say, is a diddle minute for one entire moiety of the sum borrowed has to be paid to the gentleman who had the trouble of performing the insult, and who had then to stand still and be thrashed for performing it."
4092,"She finds a sofa well adapted to her views, and upon inquiring the price, is surprised and delighted to hear a sum named at least twenty per cent."
4093,He had also changed my apartment; for he perceived that I had acquired a dislike for the room which had previously been my laboratory.
4094,"I was, at length, able to write a genuine Blackwood article, and determined to do it forthwith."
4095,"""The measures adopted were not only the best of their kind, but carried out to absolute perfection."
4096,His mother seems to've ben some kind of foreigner they say a South Sea islander so everybody raised Cain when he married an Ipswich girl fifty years ago.
4097,"Besides, though the violence of her anguish made life hateful, it had not yet produced that monotonous, lethargic sense of changeless misery which for the most part produces suicide."
4098,"I hardly replied to the slightest question, and was uneasy when I saw a human creature near me."
4099,"I had turned to the right as I entered this road, and now, arising, I continued in the same direction."
4100,"Where was I? Ah I have been assured that Snobbs is a mere corruption of Zenobia, and that Zenobia was a queen So am I. Dr. Moneypenny always calls me the Queen of the Hearts and that Zenobia, as well as Psyche, is good Greek, and that my father was ""a Greek,"" and that consequently I have a right to our patronymic, which is Zenobia and not by any means Snobbs."
4101,Morning found Dr. Armitage in a cold sweat of terror and a frenzy of wakeful concentration.
4102,Better stay over here and take the ten o'clock bus tomorrow morning; then you can get an evening bus there for Arkham at eight o'clock.
4103,"But when I went to Sinara I found the dromedary men all drunken and ribald, and saw that their songs were not as mine, so I travelled in a barge down the Xari to onyx walled Jaren."
4104,Still they would not capitulate.
4105,"His emissary obeyed, and brought the desired intelligence."
4106,"She must have foreseen the chagrin of St. Eustache, the suspicion of all."
4107,"Although the writer admits the distinction, he yet includes them all in the same category."
4108,"I well remember it had no trees, nor benches, nor anything similar within it."
4109,We had now some discussion as to the propriety and feasibility of awakening him; but we had little difficulty in agreeing that no good purpose would be served by so doing.
4110,It is a scene terrifically desolate.
4111,"""The supporting power being estimated at pounds, and the united weights of the party amounting only to about , there was left a surplus of , of which again was exhausted by ballast, arranged in bags of different sizes, with their respective weights marked upon them by cordage, barometers, telescopes, barrels containing provision for a fortnight, water casks, cloaks, carpet bags, and various other indispensable matters, including a coffee warmer, contrived for warming coffee by means of slack lime, so as to dispense altogether with fire, if it should be judged prudent to do so."
4112,"I observed that, upon her first elevation of the glass, she had seemed satisfied with a momentary inspection of my person, and was withdrawing the instrument, when, as if struck by a second thought, she resumed it, and so continued to regard me with fixed attention for the space of several minutes for five minutes, at the very least, I am sure."
4113,That deity will be found in the interior of yonder building.
4114,"The line put forth no branches, and Arthur was the last of it."
4115,"I observed that the aperture through which I had thrust my head was an opening in the dial plate of a gigantic clock, and must have appeared, from the street, as a large key hole, such as we see in the face of the French watches."
4116,"The fact is, I thought I really thought I thought at the time I thought then and have no reason for thinking otherwise now that the ""Goosetherumfoodle"" did make a mistake."
4117,"His sentence was pronounced, and I could only grieve and be patient."
4118,It may be sufficient here to say that it forms one of an infinite series of mistakes which arise in the path of Reason through her propensity for seeking truth in detail.
4119,"I hardly know, but in a few moments I sank lifeless to the ground; and so would that then all had been at an end CHAPTER VIII I was carried to the next town: fever succeeded to convulsions and faintings, for some weeks my unhappy spirit hovered on the very verge of death."
4120,"The girl was called 'sister' or 'Agatha,' and the youth 'Felix,' 'brother,' or 'son.'"
4121,"We were to sail on the fifteenth of the month June, weather permitting; and on the fourteenth, I went on board to arrange some matters in my state room."
4122,"Shrieking, slithering, torrential shadows of red viscous madness chasing one another through endless, ensanguined corridors of purple fulgurous sky . . ."
4123,"Before seating himself across the table from me, my host paused for a moment as if in embarrassment; then, tardily removing his gloves, wide brimmed hat, and cloak, stood theatrically revealed in full mid Georgian costume from queued hair and neck ruffles to knee breeches, silk hose, and the buckled shoes I had not previously noticed."
4124,"It is like sight in the end, and transmits visual pictures to the brain."
4125,"Master yourself, Raymond, and the world is subject to you."" ""All this would be very good sense, if addressed to another,"" replied Raymond, moodily, ""con the lesson yourself, and you, the first peer of the land, may become its sovereign."
4126,"Johansen's address, I discovered, lay in the Old Town of King Harold Haardrada, which kept alive the name of Oslo during all the centuries that the greater city masqueraded as ""Christiana""."
4127,"""It is well fortified; and in this respect is as much indebted to nature as to art."" Very true."
4128,"Upon rising from the piano after these miracles of vocal execution, she resumed her seat by my side; when I expressed to her, in terms of the deepest enthusiasm, my delight at her performance."
4129,"In the mean time I endeavored, but all in vain, to sound him in regard to the object of the expedition."
4130,"On the night of the day on which this cruel deed was done, I was aroused from sleep by the cry of fire."
4131,I have a mother whose support and hope I am.
4132,The plague had come to Athens.
4133,"The consideration of this dilemma gave me no little disquietude; and it will hardly be believed, that, after the dangers I had undergone, I should look upon this business in so serious a light, as to give up all hope of accomplishing my ultimate design, and finally make up my mind to the necessity of a descent."
4134,"The Roulets, it seemed, had come in from East Greenwich, down the west shore of Narragansett Bay."
4135,He will reason thus: 'I am innocent; I am poor; my Ourang Outang is of great value to one in my circumstances a fortune of itself why should I lose it through idle apprehensions of danger?
4136,"It was about two feet square, and bore West's correct name and present address."
4137,"This view was surely not weakened by the insistent offers of purchase at a high price which the Marshes began to make as soon as they knew of its presence, and which they repeated to this day despite the Society's unvarying determination not to sell."
4138,"When he arrives at the hippodrome, he will be crowned with the poetic wreath, in anticipation of his victory at the approaching Olympics."
4139,"When our exiles had first arrived, a truce was in existence between the Turks and Greeks; a truce that was as sleep to the mortal frame, signal of renewed activity on waking."
4140,"""The what?"" ""De bug, I'm berry sartain dat Massa Will bin bit somewhere bout de head by dat goole bug."" ""And what cause have you, Jupiter, for such a supposition?"""
4141,The longer he gazed the more absorbing became the spell the more impossible did it appear that he could ever withdraw his glance from the fascination of that tapestry.
4142,"He seemed the favourite child of fortune, and his untimely loss eclipsed the world, and shewed forth the remnant of mankind with diminished lustre."
4143,"Such, nevertheless, was the fact."
4144,"The widowed Rhoby Harris never recovered from the shock of her husband's death, and the passing of her first born Elkanah two years later was the final blow to her reason."
4145,"I had returned from London possessed by the idea, with the intimate feeling that it was my first duty to secure, as well as I was able, the well being of my family, and then to return and take my post beside Adrian."
4146,"Completely unnerved, I leaped to my feet; but the measured rocking movement of Usher was undisturbed."
4147,"I, not in deed, but in effect, was the true murderer."
4148,"I say nothing more than what must be obvious to every dispassionate observer, when I repeat that the circumstance of the articles in question having remained undiscovered, for a longer period than from one Sunday to another, in any thicket in the immediate neighborhood of Paris, is to be looked upon as little less than miraculous."
4149,"One disappeared in a narrow alley to the left, leaving only the echo of a shocking moan."
4150,They were both then lying on the sacking of the bedstead in the chamber where Mademoiselle L. was found.
4151,There was a gradual deterioration I had not foreseen.
4152,The disordered earth was covered with blood and human debris bespeaking too vividly the ravages of daemon teeth and talons; yet no visible trail led away from the carnage.
4153,Clerval continued talking for some time about our mutual friends and his own good fortune in being permitted to come to Ingolstadt.
4154,Angarola of Chicago has it.
4155,"""Folks aoutside hev their stories abaout us s'pose you've heerd a plenty on 'em, seein' what questions ye ast stories abaout things they've seed naow an' then, an' abaout that queer joolry as still comes in from somewhars an' ain't quite all melted up but nothin' never gits def'nite."
4156,"My imagination was vivid, yet my powers of analysis and application were intense; by the union of these qualities I conceived the idea and executed the creation of a man."
4157,"By degrees, our eyes grew somewhat accustomed to this dimness, and we perceived that there was no direct passage leading us further; but that it was possible to climb one side of the cavern to a low arch at top, which promised a more easy path, from whence we now discovered that this light proceeded."
4158,"But as the gate swung wider and the sorcery of drug and dream pushed me through, I knew that all sights and glories were at an end; for in that new realm was neither land nor sea, but only the white void of unpeopled and illimitable space."
4159,"Grieved to the soul at having been, however innocently, the cause of pain to so eminent and so sensitive a man, I hastened to apologize, and to reassure him, by expressing my perfect coincidence with his views, as well as my entire appreciation of the delicacy of his position."
4160,In the monarch Thought's dominion It stood there Never seraph spread a pinion Over fabric half so fair.
4161,"His fright, turning to steely despair, left room for a resurgence of his rage against me; and he staggered a step toward the table on whose edge I was steadying myself."
4162,"If he had permitted us to witness his agitation, he would have been more under the guidance of reason; but his struggles for the shew of composure, acted with such violence on his nerves, as to destroy his power of self command."
4163,"I fancied that night had come suddenly upon me, and vainly groped with one free hand for a window embrasure, that I might peer out and above, and try to judge the height I had attained."
4164,"Besides that, with the nearly extinct race of man, all our toils grew near a conclusion, she was too weak; consumption, if so it might be called, or rather the over active life within her, which, as with Adrian, spent the vital oil in the early morning hours, deprived her limbs of strength."
4165,The audience arose; and the usual tumult immediately supervened.
4166,"It was just such a slip, indeed, as might have been chosen for a memorandum for a record of something to be long remembered and carefully preserved."""
4167,"Idris arose also, and bent on me her eyes of celestial blue, and with grace peculiar said ""You hardly need an introduction; we have a picture, highly valued by my father, which declares at once your name."
4168,But of those mysterious allies no coherent account could ever be gained.
4169,"My father pointed out these circumstances with a serious and unaltered mien, only now and then fixing his deep and liquid eyes upon me; there was something strange and awful in his look that overcame me, and in spite of myself I wept, nor did he attempt to console me, but I saw his lips quiver and the muscles of his countenance seemed convulsed."
4170,How pleased you would be to remark the improvement of our Ernest He is now sixteen and full of activity and spirit.
4171,"Furniture, covered by the dust of ages and crumbling with the rot of long dampness, met my eyes."
4172,Carter's relatives talk much of these things because he has lately disappeared.
4173,"""Several changes, in the meantime, took place in the cottage."
4174,"In short, I never yet encountered the mere mathematician who could be trusted out of equal roots, or one who did not clandestinely hold it as a point of his faith that xpx was absolutely and unconditionally equal to q. Say to one of these gentlemen, by way of experiment, if you please, that you believe occasions may occur where xpx is not altogether equal to q, and, having made him understand what you mean, get out of his reach as speedily as convenient, for, beyond doubt, he will endeavor to knock you down."
4175,I shall ascend my funeral pile triumphantly and exult in the agony of the torturing flames.
4176,"The elderly scholar had been collecting legends of the Onga tribes near the field of his grandfather's and his own explorations, hoping in some way to account for Sir Wade's wild tales of a lost city peopled by strange hybrid creatures."
4177,"The town was getting more and more on my nerves, and I looked behind me furtively as I picked my way back over the tottering Water Street bridge."
4178,"In after sorrow or joy, believe that you father's spirit is near, to save or sympathize with you."
4179,"I had most imprudently made it known among my friends, she observed, that I desired her acquaintance thus that I did not possess it thus, again, there was no possibility of concealing the date of our first knowledge of each other."
4180,"His desire of restoring his lovely friend to her rank in society, and to her lost prosperity, animated him, and he poured forth with energy, all his wishes and intentions on that subject."
4181,"In the first few degrees of this its progress, its surface is very sensibly flattened, farther on depressed into a plane, and finally, becoming not a little concave, it terminates, at the Pole itself, in a circular centre, sharply defined, whose apparent diameter subtended at the balloon an angle of about sixty five seconds, and whose dusky hue, varying in intensity, was, at all times, darker than any other spot upon the visible hemisphere, and occasionally deepened into the most absolute and impenetrable blackness."
4182,I quitted him to take a few hours rest.
4183,"What magnificent events may ensue, it would be useless now to think of determining."
4184,As for those who in your world knew not the loveliness of benevolence justice they are placed apart some claimed by the evil spirit in vain sought for by the good but She whose delight is to reform the wicked takes all she can delivers them to her ministers not to be punished but to be exercised instructed untill acquiring a love of virtue they are fitted for these gardens where they will acquire a love of knowledge As Fantasia talked I saw various groupes of figures as they walked among the allies of the gardens or were seated on the grassy plots either in contemplation or conversation several advanced together towards the fountain where I sat As they approached I observed the principal figure to be that of a woman about years of age her eyes burned with a deep fire and every line of her face expressed enthusiasm wisdom try seemed seated on her lips which were beautifully formed every motion of her limbs although not youthful was inexpressibly graceful her black hair was bound in tresses round her head and her brows were encompassed by a fillet her dress was that of a simple tunic bound at the waist by a broad girdle and a mantle which fell over her left arm she was encompassed by several youths of both sexes who appeared to hang on her words to catch the inspiration as it flowed from her with looks either of eager wonder or stedfast attention with eyes all bent towards her eloquent countenance which beamed with the mind within I am going said Fantasia but I leave my spirit with you without which this scene wd fade away I leave you in good company that female whose eyes like the loveliest planet in the heavens draw all to gaze on her is the Prophetess Diotima the instructress of Socrates The company about her are those just escaped from the world there they were unthinking or misconducted in the pursuit of knowledge.
4185,"It appeared to me evidently in the nature of a rare atmosphere extending from the sun outward, beyond the orbit of Venus at least, and I believed indefinitely farther."
4186,"I adjure you, my father, has not an unnatural passion seized upon your heart?"
4187,"I have merely set down certain things appealing to me as facts, allowing you to construe them as you will."
4188,"Like to our first parents, the whole earth is before him, a wide desart."
4189,"Better be cautious in these old places our rodent friends are the one drawback, though I sometimes think they're a positive asset by way of atmosphere and colour."""
4190,"For example, there may be a deposition of dew upon the silk, to the extent, even, of several hundred pounds; ballast has then to be thrown out, or the machine may descend."
4191,Might have been a woman's voice.
4192,"Besides, I had serious scruples of conscience."
4193,Don't think I was a fool you ought to have seen that skull.
4194,"As I came, dressed in white, covered only by my tartan rachan, my hair streaming on my shoulders, and shooting across with greater speed that it could be supposed I could give to my boat, my father has often told me that I looked more like a spirit than a human maid."
4195,"When shown the body, she fell into violent hysterics and kept her bed for several days."
4196,"I should not call that sound a voice, for it was too awful."
4197,The coach was crammed to repletion; but in the uncertain twilight the features of my companions could not be distinguished.
4198,"Do you expect me to pay for what I did not take?"""
4199,"The sight turned him giddy after a while, so that he would have fallen to the pavement had he not clutched instinctively at the lustrous balustrade."
4200,"I must pause here, for it requires all my fortitude to recall the memory of the frightful events which I am about to relate, in proper detail, to my recollection."
4201,"""Upon this latter point,"" said Madame Lalande, laughingly, ""you have been surely injudicious in coming to confession; for, without the confession, I take it for granted that no one would have accused you of the crime."
4202,"Oh, how I longed then for the dear soothings of maternal Nature, as my wounded heart was still further stung by the roar of heartless merriment from the public house, by the sight of the drunkard reeling home, having lost the memory of what he would find there in oblivious debauch, and by the more appalling salutations of those melancholy beings to whom the name of home was a mockery."
4203,"Approaching him softly though without apparent furtiveness were five figures, two of which were the sinister old woman and the fanged, furry little animal."
4204,"He was ready to go back to old times, and commemorate the contests of our fathers, and the monarch's abdication."
4205,"I feared also that it might be some one who had seen me before: I might be recognized, my impostures discovered and I dragged back to a life of worse torture than that I had before endured."
4206,Mr. Kirwin came in and insisted that my strength should not be exhausted by too much exertion.
4207,"""This what?"" said I. ""This rabbit au chat."""
4208,"Its proprietor, Roderick Usher, had been one of my boon companions in boyhood; but many years had elapsed since our last meeting."
4209,"He was getting an intuitive knack for solving Riemannian equations, and astonished Professor Upham by his comprehension of fourth dimensional and other problems which had floored all the rest of the class."
4210,"That fishing paid less and less as the price of the commodity fell and large scale corporations offered competition, but there was never a dearth of fish around Innsmouth Harbour."
4211,"Think you, amidst the shrieks of violated innocence and helpless infancy, I did not feel in every nerve the cry of a fellow being?"
4212,"Other feelings, less ambiguous, were called into play by his conciliating manner and the generous warmth of his expressions, respect rarely before experienced, admiration, and love he had touched my rocky heart with his magic power, and the stream of affection gushed forth, imperishable and pure."
4213,The blood and soul of the people were as the blood and soul of their ancestors who had fashioned The Street.
4214,"I have also to inform you that, whether it was calm weather or stormy, I found myself always immediately between the moon and the earth."
4215,"His aspect and voice became utterly frightful, and his presence almost unbearable."
4216,"The Moskoe Ström whirlpool was about a quarter of a mile dead ahead but no more like the every day Moskoe Ström, than the whirl as you now see it is like a mill race."
4217,"Now it was that those hideous shrieks arose upon the night, which had startled from slumber the inmates of the Rue Morgue."
4218,"His kingdom was the heart of Perdita, his subjects her thoughts; by her he was loved, respected as a superior being, obeyed, waited on."
4219,"Still the same lofty domes and minarets towered above the verdurous walls, where Constantine had died, and the Turk had entered the city."
4220,"Take the colours and odour from the rose, change the sweet nutriment of mother's milk to gall and poison; as easily might you wean Perdita from love."
4221,"The ""strangeness,"" however, which I found in the eyes, was of a nature distinct from the formation, or the color, or the brilliancy of the features, and must, after all, be referred to the expression."
4222,Idris sat at the top of the half empty hall.
4223,"Few deductions, if any, were made; and those few pertinaciously returning in upon the original object as a centre."
4224,"So we retired awhile to Eleusis, and here rest and tender care added each day to the strength of our invalid."
4225,"I bought an automatic and almost took the step, but certain dreams deterred me."
4226,"He sat at a table with several secretaries, who were arranging petitions, or registering the notes made during that day's audience."
4227,"Lie down, O man, on the flower strown earth; give up all claim to your inheritance, all you can ever possess of it is the small cell which the dead require."
4228,"Our silence endured for some miles, till the country with open fields, or shady woods and parks, presented pleasant objects to our view."
4229,"The night before, she had reached Datchet; and, prowling about, had found a baker's shop open and deserted."
4230,"Yet when he returned thence, and first appeared in public life in England, her love did not purchase his, which then vacillated between Perdita and a crown."
4231,"As it was, I involuntarily closed my eyes in horror."
4232,"The odour arising from the newly opened depths was intolerable, and at length the quick eared Hawkins thought he heard a nasty, slopping sound down there."
4233,The bas relief was a rough rectangle less than an inch thick and about five by six inches in area; obviously of modern origin.
4234,"The pallor of his countenance had assumed, if possible, a more ghastly hue but the luminousness of his eye had utterly gone out."
4235,"Do not wake me let me die so"" I here felt the limbs and found them as rigid as ever."
4236,"Besides, although I was evidently approaching the surface below me, it was with a speed by no means commensurate with the velocity I had at first so horribly conceived."
4237,"Curtis, who had held the instrument, dropped it with a piercing shriek into the ankle deep mud of the road."
4238,"I remember that once a Foreigner, a German, I think, was in our Company; and that whilst Goldsmith was speaking, he observ'd the Doctor preparing to utter something."
4239,"They looked like strips torn off.' Here, inadvertently, Le Soleil has employed an exceedingly suspicious phrase."
4240,"He was never to be seen beyond the limits of his own domain, and, in this wide and social world, was utterly companionless unless, indeed, that unnatural, impetuous, and fiery colored horse, which he henceforward continually bestrode, had any mysterious right to the title of his friend."
4241,'Tis berry hebby bug.
4242,And now I began to live.
4243,"I did not enlarge his knowledge in this regard, but sought with some subtlety to draw him out."
4244,"Now we've only this one thing to fight, and it can't multiply."
4245,"This was asked only half ironically; and Idris wondered why her mother should extort from her a solemn vow not to do, what she had never dreamed of doing but the promise was required and given."
4246,"At length he arose, took a candle from the table, and proceeded to seat himself upon a sea chest in the farthest corner of the room."
4247,"And now, flatter and flatter grew the lozenge, with a rapidity that left me no time for contemplation."
4248,"She attended her sickbed; her watchful attentions triumphed over the malignity of the distemper Elizabeth was saved, but the consequences of this imprudence were fatal to her preserver."
4249,"The Atlantic has been actually crossed in a Balloon and this too without difficulty without any great apparent danger with thorough control of the machine and in the inconceivably brief period of seventy five hours from shore to shore By the energy of an agent at Charleston, S.C., we are enabled to be the first to furnish the public with a detailed account of this most extraordinary voyage, which was performed between Saturday, the th instant, at , A.M., and , P.M., on Tuesday, the th instant, by Sir Everard Bringhurst; Mr. Osborne, a nephew of Lord Bentinck's; Mr. Monck Mason and Mr. Robert Holland, the well known æronauts; Mr. Harrison Ainsworth, author of ""Jack Sheppard,"" c.; and Mr. Henson, the projector of the late unsuccessful flying machine with two seamen from Woolwich in all, eight persons."
4250,"The white apes and the stuffed goddess were discussed with all the native chiefs of the region, but it remained for a European to improve on the data offered by old Mwanu."
4251,"The boxed object was delivered at Jermyn House on the afternoon of August , , being conveyed immediately to the large chamber which housed the collection of African specimens as arranged by Sir Robert and Arthur."
4252,She had not sheltered herself in silence.
4253,"He is aware that he seldom passes so far as a dozen blocks from his own bureau, without being recognized and accosted."
4254,"It seemed to be a sort of monster, or symbol representing a monster, of a form which only a diseased fancy could conceive."
4255,"If our impulses were confined to hunger, thirst, and desire, we might be nearly free; but now we are moved by every wind that blows and a chance word or scene that that word may convey to us."
4256,"The voice said ""Ha ha ha he he a very good joke indeed an excellent jest."
4257,"Let us not for a moment forget our object and our hope; and they will form a resistless mound to stop the overflowing of our regret for trifles."""
4258,"Although upreared upon the summit of a wave more than a hundred times her own altitude, her apparent size exceeded that of any ship of the line or East Indiaman in existence."
4259,"This proved however to be a second passage, which evidently ascended."
4260,"Superstitious terror crept by degrees into the spirit of the old Swede, and my own soul was wrapped up in silent wonder."
4261,The contest was keen and doubtful.
4262,And will a contented conscience compensate for fallen hopes a slandered name torn affections all the miseries of civilized life?
4263,"Now I must fulfil my vow; now range myself at his side, and be his ally and support till death."
4264,"Presently the two people simply villagers, apparently farthest in the lead saw me and stood paralysed."
4265,I bestowed on him all my affections; there was a miniature of him that I gazed on continually; I copied his last letter and read it again and again.
4266,"The rumour now spread widely that these houses contained the leaders of a vast band of terrorists, who on a designated day were to launch an orgy of slaughter for the extermination of America and of all the fine old traditions which The Street had loved."
4267,"It is, perhaps, scarcely necessary to add, that all the suggestions attributed to Brewster and Herschel, in the beginning of the article, about ""a transfusion of artificial light through the focal object of vision,"" etc., etc., belong to that species of figurative writing which comes, most properly, under the denomination of rigmarole."
4268,"A moment more and Perdita appeared; she stood before me in the fresh bloom of youthful womanhood, different from and yet the same as the mountain girl I had left."
4269,"After the ceremony was performed a large party assembled at my father's, but it was agreed that Elizabeth and I should commence our journey by water, sleeping that night at Evian and continuing our voyage on the following day."
4270,"It happened once before, but the man got frightened and shot himself."
4271,"The fool if he could not come himself, why, in the name of every thing rational, could he not have enclosed me a letter of presentation?"
4272,"I was on deck, enjoying our swift progress."
4273,"I glanced at its face by the moonlight, and then burst into tears as I flung it far away into the ocean."
4274,"I avoided you, you know I did, but you forced yourself upon me and gave me those wants which you see with triumph give you power over me."
4275,"In passing down an alley in the rear of the Rue Morgue, the fugitive's attention was arrested by a light gleaming from the open window of Madame L'Espanaye's chamber, in the fourth story of her house."
4276,I found that these people possessed a method of communicating their experience and feelings to one another by articulate sounds.
4277,The body must have looked even worse in life but the world holds many ugly things.
4278,"""Treason"" growled he of the coffin."
4279,"His expressionless face was handsome to the point of radiant beauty, but had shocked the superintendent when the hall light fell on it for it was a wax face with eyes of painted glass."
4280,"""Oh, extra baggage, to be sure,"" I now said to myself ""something he wishes not to be put in the hold something to be kept under his own eye ah, I have it a painting or so and this is what he has been bargaining about with Nicolino, the Italian Jew."""
4281,"They found me Curius like, feasting on sorry fruits for supper; but they brought gifts richer than the golden bribes of the Sabines, nor could I refuse the invaluable store of friendship and delight which they bestowed."
4282,P. Does the idea of death afflict you?
4283,"Look also at the innumerable fish that are swimming in the clear waters, where we can distinguish every pebble that lies at the bottom."
4284,"The fishy odour, dispelled for a moment by some merciful breeze, now closed in again with maddening intensity."
4285,"""Malitia vetus malitia vetus est . . ."
4286,"Soon they became excessively numerous, like impious catacombs of nameless menace; and their pungent odour of decay grew quite unbearable."
4287,"In this respect, indeed, she might have been regarded as little less than the equal of the celebrated Ninon De L'Enclos."
4288,"There were two armlets, a tiara, and a kind of pectoral; the latter having in high relief certain figures of almost unbearable extravagance."
4289,"The Herr Johann Hermann Hermann commenced the perusal of this epistle with a scowl, which, however, was converted into a smile of the most ludicrous self complacency as he came to the rigmarole about Injuriae per applicationem, per constructionem, et per se."
4290,Wilson's retaliations in kind were many; and there was one form of his practical wit that disturbed me beyond measure.
4291,"She sang, and her voice flowed in a rich cadence, swelling or dying away like a nightingale of the woods."
4292,"He replied feebly, yet quite audibly, ""Yes, I wish to be."
4293,March st our February th according to the International Date Line the earthquake and storm had come.
4294,"Upon its head, with red extended mouth and solitary eye of fire, sat the hideous beast whose craft had seduced me into murder, and whose informing voice had consigned me to the hangman."
4295,"I threw off an overcoat, took an arm chair by the crackling logs, and awaited patiently the arrival of my hosts."
4296,"He did not laugh as I paused, but asked quite seriously about the boy who went mad in , and who had presumably been the hero of my fiction."
4297,"At length, in taking leave, he takes also from the table the letter to which he had no claim."
4298,"""Such were the events that preyed on the heart of Felix and rendered him, when I first saw him, the most miserable of his family."
4299,"""It was on one of these days, when my cottagers periodically rested from labour the old man played on his guitar, and the children listened to him that I observed the countenance of Felix was melancholy beyond expression; he sighed frequently, and once his father paused in his music, and I conjectured by his manner that he inquired the cause of his son's sorrow."
4300,I leaned to the right.
4301,"But this weakness was, luckily for me, of no very long duration."
4302,Negotium perambulans in tenebris. . . .
4303,"The great ""movement"" that was the cant term went on: a diseased commotion, moral and physical."
4304,"To create individual, thinking beings, it was necessary to incarnate portions of the divine mind."
4305,"They did not expect to hear Sir Alfred Jermyn emit a shrill, inhuman scream, or to see him seize his clumsy antagonist with both hands, dash it to the floor of the cage, and bite fiendishly at its hairy throat."
4306,"I found it, however, altogether too expensive, and was not sure, upon the whole, whether cambric muslin with a coating of gum caoutchouc, was not equally as good."
4307,"He had refused to take pay for it, and only long afterward did I guess why."
4308,"When any separation took place between us, it generally so happened, that Idris and Perdita would ramble away together, and we remained to discuss the affairs of nations, and the philosophy of life."
4309,"Many changes also now occurred in these spontaneous regal elections: depositions and abdications were frequent, while, in the place of the old and prudent, the ardent youth would step forward, eager for action, regardless of danger."
4310,In beauty of face no maiden ever equalled her.
4311,While we were in London there was a harshness and sulleness in his sorrow which had now entirely disappeared.
4312,"I began also to observe, with greater accuracy, the forms that surrounded me and to perceive the boundaries of the radiant roof of light which canopied me."
4313,"The procession of clerics began filing down the steep stairs through the trap door in the floor, turning and making menacing gestures as they left."
4314,"Chemistry is that branch of natural philosophy in which the greatest improvements have been and may be made; it is on that account that I have made it my peculiar study; but at the same time, I have not neglected the other branches of science."
4315,"Gabinius had, the rumour ran, come upon a cliffside cavern where strange folk met together and made the Elder Sign in the dark; strange folk whom the Britons knew not save in fear, and who were the last to survive from a great land in the west that had sunk, leaving only the islands with the raths and circles and shrines of which Stonehenge was the greatest."
4316,We watched the rapid progress of the traveller with our telescopes until he was lost among the distant inequalities of the ice.
4317,"Jan Martense, whose room I had invaded, was buried in the graveyard near the mansion. . . ."
4318,"Each individual, before a part of a great whole moving only in unison with others, now became resolved into the unit nature had made him, and thought of himself only."
4319,I observed the door of a small out house a jar.
4320,"I had been lying with my face away from my uncle's chair, so that in this sudden flash of awakening I saw only the door to the street, the more northerly window, and the wall and floor and ceiling toward the north of the room, all photographed with morbid vividness on my brain in a light brighter than the glow of the fungi or the rays from the street outside."
4321,"Look on me as dead; and truly if death be a mere change of state, I am dead."
4322,"His questioning grew more than medically tense, and his hands shook as he dressed the mangled members; binding them as if he wished to get the wounds out of sight as quickly as possible."
4323,In the meantime let us survey this image.
4324,"God What wonder that across the earth a great architect went mad, and poor Wilcox raved with fever in that telepathic instant?"
4325,"But, no, my tale must not pause; it must be as rapid as was my fate, I can only describe in short although strong expressions my precipitate and irremediable change from happiness to despair."
4326,"The ridged, barrel shaped centre, the thin, radiating arms, the knobs at each end, and the flat, slightly outward curving starfish arms spreading from those knobs all were there."
4327,The appearance of Justine was calm.
4328,"But when he looked, he did not see what he had expected; for his colleagues were not there at all, but only the Terrible Old Man leaning quietly on his knotted cane and smiling hideously."
4329,"Great decrease in the earth's apparent diameter, which now subtended from the balloon an angle of very little more than twenty five degrees."
4330,"I never sought to return to those tenebrous labyrinths, nor would I direct any sane man thither if I could."
4331,"Raymond sprung lightly on his horse, grasped the standard, and with words which I could not hear but his gestures, being their fit accompaniment, were marked by passionate energy, he seemed to adjure their assistance and companionship; even as he spoke, the crowd receded from him."
4332,Positive pleasure is a mere idea.
4333,"Winter, spring, and summer passed away during my labours; but I did not watch the blossom or the expanding leaves sights which before always yielded me supreme delight so deeply was I engrossed in my occupation."
4334,"The flutes piped horribly, and again I heard the beating of the drums from the direction of the island ruin."
4335,Raymond yielded for the present.
4336,"""Poor Matt Matt he allus was agin' it tried to line up the folks on his side, an' had long talks with the preachers no use they run the Congregational parson aout o' taown, an' the Methodist feller quit never did see Resolved Babcock, the Baptist parson, agin Wrath o' Jehovy I was a mighty little critter, but I heerd what I heerd an' seen what I seen Dagon an' Ashtoreth Belial an' Beëlzebub Golden Caff an' the idols o' Canaan an' the Philistines Babylonish abominations Mene, mene, tekel, upharsin "" He stopped again, and from the look in his watery blue eyes I feared he was close to a stupor after all."
4337,I profited of this time to rest for a few hours.
4338,"Adrian remained in the coffee room, while I, in compliance with his desire, took my seat in St. Stephen's."
4339,One subject What could it be?
4340,"The narrow space immediately surrounding what had been the body, was now growing to be the body itself."
4341,"But, when I recovered from this stupor, there dawned upon me gradually a conviction which startled me even far more than the coincidence."
4342,"With a fair and strong breeze we soon ran into the little cove to the northward of Fort Moultrie, and a walk of some two miles brought us to the hut."
4343,"It may be observed, in passing, that this prodigious glass is said to have been molded at the glasshouse of Messrs. Hartley and Grant, in Dumbarton; but Messrs. H. and G.'s establishment had ceased operations for many years previous to the publication of the hoax."
4344,"The archaic lanes and houses and unexpected bits of square and court had indeed delighted me, and when I found the poets and artists to be loud voiced pretenders whose quaintness is tinsel and whose lives are a denial of all that pure beauty which is poetry and art, I stayed on for love of these venerable things."
4345,"She was frightened by his gaiety, for she dreaded a greater revulsion at the end."
4346,"In this walk, so many times repeated, the world's greatest master of the terrible and the bizarre was obliged to pass a particular house on the eastern side of the street; a dingy, antiquated structure perched on the abruptly rising side hill, with a great unkempt yard dating from a time when the region was partly open country."
4347,The small object on the table fascinated me intensely.
4348,We were now thoroughly broken down; but the intense excitement of the time denied us repose.
4349,"I then thought, and I think so still, that I never heard a clearer nor a stronger voice, nor beheld a finer set of teeth: but I must say that I was sorry for the interruption just at that moment, as, owing to the whispers and insinuations aforesaid, my interest had been greatly excited in the hero of the Bugaboo and Kickapoo campaign."
4350,"""And now, Dupin, what would you advise me to do?"" ""To make a thorough re search of the premises."""
4351,"Legrand immediately took the scythe, and cleared with it a circular space, three or four yards in diameter, just beneath the insect, and, having accomplished this, ordered Jupiter to let go the string and come down from the tree."
4352,"On Monday, it was ascertained that the girl had not been to the Rue des Drômes; and when the day elapsed without tidings of her, a tardy search was instituted at several points in the city, and its environs."
4353,"The old captains of the sea came often to my grandfather and told him of these things, which in turn he told to my father, and my father told to me in the long autumn evenings when the wind howled eerily from the East."
4354,"On a pair of golden crouching lions rested the throne, many steps above the gleaming floor."
4355,"After all, the strangest and maddest of myths are often merely symbols or allegories based upon truth and old Zadok must have seen everything which went on around Innsmouth for the last ninety years."
4356,"The whole cohort now remained at a standstill, and as the torches faded I watched what I thought were fantastic shadows outlined in the sky by the spectral luminosity of the Via Lactea as it flowed through Perseus, Cassiopeia, Cepheus, and Cygnus."
4357,"About eight inches immediately below these ropes, and four feet from the bottom of the car I fastened another shelf but made of thin plank, being the only similar piece of wood I had."
4358,"Before, I had only imagined the wretchedness of my desolated home; the reality came on me as a new, and a not less terrible, disaster."
4359,"As I was coming home I met Lieutenant G , from the fort, and, very foolishly, I lent him the bug; so it will be impossible for you to see it until the morning."
4360,It was the mind and character of Arthur Jermyn which atoned for his aspect.
4361,"It is a plain, straightforward business, and requires no particular abilities."
4362,"By this time the cries had ceased; but, as the party rushed up the first flight of stairs, two or more rough voices in angry contention were distinguished and seemed to proceed from the upper part of the house."
4363,"""Yet, as I have said, I should be best pleased, at least for the present, to live under the same roof with you."
4364,Upon this topic the topic of Smith's personal appearance I have a kind of melancholy satisfaction in being minute.
4365,"God, man Don't you realise that places like that weren't merely made, but actually grew?"
4366,"I pressed on, but in vain."
4367,"The studied immovability of her countenance; her slow, equable manner, and soft but unmelodious voice, were a mask, hiding her fiery passions, and the impatience of her disposition."
4368,"A strange star, my Lionel, ruled our birth; sadly and with dismay we may look upon the annihilation of man; but we remain for each other."
4369,The sun sank lower in the heavens; we passed the river Drance and observed its path through the chasms of the higher and the glens of the lower hills.
4370,With summer and mortality grew our fears.
4371,"The right arm of the Chess Player is extended at full length before him, at right angles with his body, and lying, in an apparently careless position, by the side of the board."
4372,"The labours of men of genius, however erroneously directed, scarcely ever fail in ultimately turning to the solid advantage of mankind."""
4373,"""Having attained the altitude before mentioned, that is to say three miles and three quarters, I threw out from the car a quantity of feathers, and found that I still ascended with sufficient rapidity; there was, therefore, no necessity for discharging any ballast."
4374,"They say, too, that the fierce aurora comes oftener to that spot, shining blue in the north with visions of frozen worlds while the crag and the cottage hang black and fantastic against wild coruscations."
4375,"With great volubility, in their native Neapolitan dialect, with which we were not very familiar, they told us that there were spectres, that the roof would fall in, that it was too narrow to admit us, that there was a deep hole within, filled with water, and we might be drowned."
4376,"You do not treat me with candour; it is not true what you say; this will not soon pass away, it will last forever if you deign not to speak to me; to admit my consolations."
4377,"The joyful welcome of my boys, the soft gratulation of Clara, the pressure of Adrian's hand, contributed to unman me."
4378,It is very probable that he seats himself upon the little square block or protuberance which is seen in a corner of the main compartment when the doors are open.
4379,"The quiet was disturbed only by the rush of waters as they divided before the steady keel, the murmur of the moveless and full sails, the wind whistling in the shrouds, and the regular motion of the engine."
4380,"The undue, earnest, and morbid attention thus excited by objects in their own nature frivolous, must not be confounded in character with that ruminating propensity common to all mankind, and more especially indulged in by persons of ardent imagination."
4381,"But neither ship nor land appeared, and I began to despair in my solitude upon the heaving vastnesses of unbroken blue."
4382,"My knock was answered in good English by a curious voice some distance to the right, asking my name and business; and these things being stated, there came an opening of the door next to the one I had sought."
4383,My manner had convinced them.
4384,"On the fourth her corpse was found floating in the Seine, near the shore which is opposite the Quartier of the Rue Saint Andree, and at a point not very far distant from the secluded neighborhood of the Barrière du Roule."
4385,"I would betake me with them to some wild beast's den, where a tyger's cubs, which I would slay, had been reared in health."
4386,"At last the spring thaw came, and graves were laboriously prepared for the nine silent harvests of the grim reaper which waited in the tomb."
4387,"My own column was sucked toward the open country, and presently felt a chill which was not of the hot autumn; for as we stalked out on the dark moor, we beheld around us the hellish moon glitter of evil snows."
4388,"His voice expressed the deepest compassion: ""Thou most unaccountable being,"" I cried, ""whither will thy actions tend, in all this maze of purpose in which thou seemest lost?"" ""Whither indeed?"
4389,I did not at least during the long period in which the inventor of Lombardy poplars continued to favor me with his explanations.
4390,"Perhaps it was at first only the manifest reluctance of my old preceptor to discuss with me my paternal ancestry that gave rise to the terror which I ever felt at the mention of my great house; yet as I grew out of childhood, I was able to piece together disconnected fragments of discourse, let slip from the unwilling tongue which had begun to falter in approaching senility, that had a sort of relation to a certain circumstance which I had always deemed strange, but which now became dimly terrible."
4391,"His manner was a wild mixture of the peevishness of second childhood, and the solemn dignity of a God."
4392,He was too much astounded to resist.
4393,"Spurred by an impulse he did not originate, Gilman dragged himself forward along a course determined by the angle of the old woman's arms and the direction of the small monstrosity's paw, and before he had shuffled three steps he was back in the twilight abysses."
4394,"The chiselled stone has the hue of ages, and is profusely overhung and overspread with the ivy, the coral honeysuckle, the eglantine, and the clematis."
4395,"A Sicilian owns it, and I've hired it under the name of Peters."
4396,"Now, it cannot be maintained, even, that by the crawling system the greatest amount of truth would be attained in any long series of ages, for the repression of imagination was an evil not to be compensated for by any superior certainty in the ancient modes of investigation."
4397,"The moribund hermit's rage and fear, swelling to grotesque proportions, seemed likely to shatter what remained of his failing physique; and once a spasm caused him to clap his hands to his eyes and rush into the bathroom."
4398,How can I see so noble a creature destroyed by misery without feeling the most poignant grief?
4399,"I smiled, for what had I to fear?"
4400,"And as he nodded, and bared the black stumps of what had once been yellow fangs, I clutched at the curtains to prevent myself from falling."
4401,"Some turn in the road, some new object suddenly perceived and recognized, reminded me of days gone by, and were associated with the lighthearted gaiety of boyhood."
4402,"The tramp of horses, distinctly heard in the silence, was at length discerned."
4403,"Wit, hilarity, and deep observation were mingled in his talk, rendering every sentence that he uttered as a flash of light."
4404,"I was too fond of ending my stories with sights or sounds which paralysed my heroes' faculties and left them without courage, words, or associations to tell what they had experienced."
4405,"What I wished was a comprehensive history of the site from its very settlement in or even before, if any Narragansett Indian legend could be unearthed to supply the data."
4406,I say the mean or average interval.
4407,"The entire reward thus stood at no less than thirty thousand francs, which will be regarded as an extraordinary sum when we consider the humble condition of the girl, and the great frequency, in large cities, of such atrocities as the one described."
4408,Thus there is such a thing as being too profound.
4409,"Nothing can surpass in beauty the form, or the glossy, vivid green of the leaves of the tulip tree."
4410,You are not as badly off as you might be but you must get out of here at once and stay away.
4411,"Then said Iranon, ""Wherefore do ye toil; is it not that ye may live and be happy?"
4412,"Mazurewicz was waiting for him at the door, and seemed both anxious and reluctant to whisper some fresh bit of superstition."
4413,"They bend the forest and crush the city, yet may not forest or city behold the hand that smites."
4414,"Most of these, however, soon shewed their poverty and barrenness; and he saw that the popular doctrines of occultism are as dry and inflexible as those of science, yet without even the slender palliative of truth to redeem them."
4415,"There had, however, been a riot of some sort later on perhaps forty years later, after old Roulet's death and no one seemed to hear of the family after that."
4416,"""A skull, you say very well how is it fastened to the limb?"
4417,"""I will explain,"" he said, ""and that you may comprehend all clearly, we will first retrace the course of your meditations, from the moment in which I spoke to you until that of the rencontre with the fruiterer in question."
4418,The mesmeric condition is so near death as to content me.
4419,"The retardation actually experienced is, on the other hand, about that which might be expected from the friction of the ether in the instantaneous passage through the orb."
4420,"I cannot lead on to battle; I cannot, through intrigue and faithlessness rear again the throne upon the wreck of English public spirit."
4421,"Her country, its ancient annals, its late memorable struggles, were all made to partake in her glory and excellence."
4422,"He was trying to make a noise; to ward something off or drown something out what, I could not imagine, awesome though I felt it must be."
4423,"The bus, rather early, rattled in with three passengers somewhat before eight, and an evil looking fellow on the sidewalk muttered a few indistinguishable words to the driver."
4424,"Snow fell, and the waters were hardened, but I rested not."
4425,"I will not say, then, commence with the moment of life's cessation but commence with that sad, sad instant when, the fever having abandoned you, you sank into a breathless and motionless torpor, and I pressed down your pallid eyelids with the passionate fingers of love."
4426,It was as if the workmanship were that of another planet.
4427,"He was comely, even as thou, but full of folly and strangeness; and he ran away when small to find those who would listen gladly to his songs and dreams."
4428,"It was by one of the terrific barriers already mentioned, and which indicated the region beyond to be under the Pest ban, that, in scrambling down an alley, Legs and the worthy Hugh Tarpaulin found their progress suddenly impeded."
4429,Two months after my aunt's death we removed to London where I was led by my father to attend to deeper studies than had before occupied me.
4430,"Obviously it was organic, or had once been organic. . . ."
4431,"His clothing was badly rumpled, and Joe's crucifix was missing."
4432,Discipline was lost; the army disbanded itself.
4433,"And now, from the wreck and the chaos of the usual senses, there appeared to have arisen within me a sixth, all perfect."
4434,"But to the chamber which lies most westwardly of the seven, there are now none of the maskers who venture; for the night is waning away; and there flows a ruddier light through the blood colored panes; and the blackness of the sable drapery appals; and to him whose foot falls upon the sable carpet, there comes from the near clock of ebony a muffled peal more solemnly emphatic than any which reaches their ears who indulge in the more remote gaieties of the other apartments."
4435,Then it was obvious that the pursuers were gaining.
4436,Now you may think that I drew back but no.
4437,"Then again sound, and motion, and touch a tingling sensation pervading my frame."
4438,Such estates were seldom held before by a nobleman of Hungary.
4439,"We approached the house from the field in the rear, took the specimen in the back door and down the cellar stairs, and prepared it for the usual experiment."
4440,Our conversation now turned upon the details of our arrangements for the morrow.
4441,There was not a particle of silver.
4442,"As we talked thus, I perceived that we were not going the ordinary road to Windsor, but through Englefield Green, towards Bishopgate Heath."
4443,"To you alone do I dare speak; I have heard you commended by impartial spectators; you are my brother's friends, therefore you must be mine."
4444,"M. Beauvais, not being an idiot, could never have urged, in identification of the corpse, simply hair upon its arm."
4445,"""'We will suppose,' said the miser, 'that his symptoms are such and such; now, doctor, what would you have directed him to take?' ""'Take' said Abernethy, 'why, take advice, to be sure.'"""
4446,"As a last effort, my sister mustered her strength, her firmness; she stepped from one boat to the other, and then with a shriek she sprang towards Raymond, knelt at his side, and glueing her lips to the hand she seized, her face shrouded by her long hair, gave herself up to tears."
4447,"The key to the whole was found in leaving out every second and third word alternately, when there appeared a series of ludicrous quizzes upon a single combat as practised in modern times."
4448,"I had already been three months in prison, and although I was still weak and in continual danger of a relapse, I was obliged to travel nearly a hundred miles to the country town where the court was held."
4449,"An icy chill ran through my frame; a sense of insufferable anxiety oppressed me; a consuming curiosity pervaded my soul; and sinking back upon the chair, I remained for some time breathless and motionless, with my eyes riveted upon her person."
4450,The curtains of my bed were in flames.
4451,"There followed a few spasmodic muscular motions, and then an audible breathing and visible motion of the chest."
4452,"The aspect of the whole was abnormally life like, and the more subtly fearful because its source was so totally unknown."
4453,"My identity, too, is bewilderingly cloudy."
4454,But so long as we don't move we're fairly safe.
4455,"And here let me call your attention to the fact, that the time elapsing between the first ascertained, and the second supposed elopement, is a few months more than the general period of the cruises of our men of war."
4456,"It is only within the last century, Pundit tells me, that the binary relation existing between these two orbs began even to be suspected."
4457,"These the mere romanticist must eschew, if he do not wish to offend or to disgust."
4458,"The air was cold, and the rain again began to descend; we entered the hut, the fiend with an air of exultation, I with a heavy heart and depressed spirits."
4459,My work is nearly complete.
4460,"I threw down the oar, and leaning my head upon my hands, gave way to every gloomy idea that arose."
4461,"My mind, however, was too much occupied to sleep, and I lay the whole night buried in meditation."
4462,I could read the influence of my friend in their quickened motions and cheerful faces.
4463,Here Pompey screwed on an arm.
4464,"A full thousand cubits high stood the greatest among them, wherein the high priests dwelt with a magnificence scarce less than that of the kings."
4465,"I revolved many projects, but that on which I finally fixed was to enter the dwelling when the blind old man should be alone."
4466,Each moment added to its speed to its headlong impetuosity.
4467,"They shall behold the antipodes of what is real for I will appear to live while I am dead."""
4468,"The drawer is now opened, and the legs of the person within drop down behind it in the space it formerly occupied."
4469,I can call to mind no similar occurrence producing so general and so intense an effect.
4470,Just as the day dawns to the friendless and houseless beggar who roams the streets throughout the long desolate winter night just so tardily just so wearily just so cheerily came back the light of the Soul to me.
4471,"I was awake, and during the long hours of dead night, my busy thoughts worked in my brain, like ten thousand mill wheels, rapid, acute, untameable."
4472,And I heard it hinted abroad that those who knew Nyarlathotep looked on sights which others saw not.
4473,"And all with pearl and ruby glowing Was the fair palace door, Through which came flowing, flowing, flowing, And sparkling evermore, A troop of Echoes whose sweet duty Was but to sing, In voices of surpassing beauty, The wit and wisdom of their king."
4474,"""It is nothing,"" he said, at last."
4475,"All at once I saw there were others in the room grave looking men in clerical costume, one of whom wore the bands and knee breeches of a bishop."
4476,"All of soul inspiriting fled with sleep, and dark melancholy clouded every thought."
4477,"Adrian and Idris saw this; they attributed it to my long watching and anxiety; they urged me to rest, and take care of myself, while I most truly assured them, that my best medicine was their good wishes; those, and the assured convalescence of my friend, now daily more apparent."
4478,that no human being can be accommodated within the box. .
4479,"To night the question is to be decided, as there is a call of the house for the purpose."
4480,It was not it is not a common infidelity at which I repine.
4481,"I passed through the gap of the broken paling I felt, while I disdained, the choaking tears I rushed into the depths of the forest."
4482,"For the first three or four days we had fine weather, although the wind was dead ahead; having chopped round to the northward, immediately upon our losing sight of the coast."
4483,"Even so will I brave the plague and though no man follow, I will plant the Grecian standard on the height of St. Sophia."""
4484,"Quitting Talbot abruptly, I made every effort to force my way into closer proximity with Madame Lalande."
4485,"I could not at first understand the change, but gradually a horrible sort of comparison began to obtrude itself on my unconscious mind despite the steady refusal of my consciousness to admit even the least suspicion of it."
4486,"Each one of a gang so placed, is not so much greedy of reward, or anxious for escape, as fearful of betrayal."
4487,"No sooner had these syllables passed my lips, than as if a shield of brass had indeed, at the moment, fallen heavily upon a floor of silver I became aware of a distinct, hollow, metallic, and clangorous, yet apparently muffled reverberation."
4488,"She was carried thus unconscious on board; the anchor weighed, and the wind being favourable, we stood far out to sea; with all the canvas spread, and the power of the engine to assist, we scudded swiftly and steadily through the chafed element."
4489,"""The material world,"" continued Dupin, ""abounds with very strict analogies to the immaterial; and thus some color of truth has been given to the rhetorical dogma, that metaphor, or simile, may be made to strengthen an argument, as well as to embellish a description."
4490,"It was deposited in Wyatt's own; and there, too, it remained, occupying very nearly the whole of the floor no doubt to the exceeding discomfort of the artist and his wife; this the more especially as the tar or paint with which it was lettered in sprawling capitals, emitted a strong, disagreeable, and, to my fancy, a peculiarly disgusting odor."
4491,"Clouds hid the moon, everything was obscure, and I heard only the sound of the boat as its keel cut through the waves; the murmur lulled me, and in a short time I slept soundly."
4492,"I s'pose you know though I can see you're a Westerner by your talk what a lot our New England ships used to have to do with queer ports in Africa, Asia, the South Seas, and everywhere else, and what queer kinds of people they sometimes brought back with 'em."
4493,"Yet his countenance was, nevertheless, one of those which all men have seen at some period of their lives, and have never afterwards seen again."
4494,"Evidently some blight or distemper, perhaps sprung from the unwholesome pasturage or the diseased fungi and timbers of the filthy barn, caused a heavy mortality amongst the Whateley animals."
4495,"One thing upon which M. Beauvais strongly insists is, that the clasp on the garter found, had been set back to take it in."
4496,"It seemed to be his design rather to insinuate than directly to assert that, physically, he had not always been what he was that a long series of neuralgic attacks had reduced him from a condition of more than usual personal beauty, to that which I saw."
4497,"As I ran at full speed, with my nose up in the atmosphere, and intent only upon the purloiner of my property, I suddenly perceived that my feet rested no longer upon terra firma; the fact is, I had thrown myself over a precipice, and should inevitably have been dashed to pieces but for my good fortune in grasping the end of a long guide rope, which depended from a passing balloon."
4498,"But the autumn wind moaned sad and wan, and we could not be sure."
4499,"My hair which had been raven black the day before, was as white as you see it now."
4500,"He felt it was highly necessary to get the ponderous thing home and begin deciphering it, and bore it out of the shop with such precipitate haste that the old Jew chuckled disturbingly behind him."
4501,At the most remote end of the crypt there appeared another less spacious.
4502,"Complaints from many liberal organisations were met with long confidential discussions, and representatives were taken on trips to certain camps and prisons."
4503,The long imprisoned secret burst forth from my soul.
4504,"There was a hideous screaming which echoed above even the hill noises and the dogs' barking on the night Wilbur was born, but no known doctor or midwife presided at his coming."
4505,"""No, no,"" he said, ""do not deceive yourself, me you cannot."
4506,"""Out"" I replied, staggering back half a dozen paces ""let me tell you, my fine fellow, that this thing is thoroughly impossible and impracticable; Mr. Talbot is not out."
4507,We contradicted no fancies which entered the brains of the mad.
4508,With one savage kick he sent the morbidity over the edge of the gulf and heard it whimper on some level far below.
4509,"And when my spirit departs shall the child live thy child and mine, Morella's."
4510,"Inside, wrapped in a discoloured parchment, was a huge key of tarnished silver covered with cryptical arabesques; but of any legible explanation there was none."
4511,"It was at Venice, beneath the covered archway there called the Ponte di Sospiri, that I met for the third or fourth time the person of whom I speak."
4512,"In viewing this question in its full and proper light, we must hold steadily in mind the great disproportion between the personal acquaintances of even the most noted individual in Paris, and the entire population of Paris itself."
4513,"There was not much, though, that he could say."
4514,"The pale enthusiast now applied some last perfunctory tests for absolute lifelessness, withdrew satisfied, and finally injected into the left arm an accurately measured amount of the vital elixir, prepared during the afternoon with a greater care than we had used since college days, when our feats were new and groping."
4515,He beholds in me one whom he has injured even unto death; and I derive no hope from his kindness; no change can possibly be brought about even by his best intentions.
4516,"Something about them seemed so odd and provocative that I could not put them out of my mind, and despite the relative lateness of the hour I resolved to see the local sample said to be a large, queerly proportioned thing evidently meant for a tiara if it could possibly be arranged."
4517,"An indefinite dampness seemed upon the place, and I marvelled that no fire should be blazing."
4518,"Still more shocking were the products of some of the experiments grisly masses of flesh that had been dead, but that West waked to a blind, brainless, nauseous animation."
4519,"And then did we, the seven, start from our seats in horror, and stand trembling, and shuddering, and aghast, for the tones in the voice of the shadow were not the tones of any one being, but of a multitude of beings, and, varying in their cadences from syllable to syllable fell duskly upon our ears in the well remembered and familiar accents of many thousand departed friends."
4520,The surface I uncovered was fishy and glassy a kind of semi putrid congealed jelly with suggestions of translucency.
4521,"Dog Street"" By the thirty first day of the month, this advertisement has brought to the office of Messrs. Bogs, Hogs, Logs, Frogs, and Company, some fifteen or twenty young gentlemen piously inclined."
4522,"In pursuance of Dupin's suggestion, I made scrupulous examination of the affair of the affidavits."
4523,"Something had caught my ancestor on a dark valley road, leaving him with marks of horns on his chest and of ape like claws on his back; and when they looked for prints in the trampled dust they found the mixed marks of split hooves and vaguely anthropoid paws."
4524,"That glimpse, like all dread glimpses of truth, flashed out from an accidental piecing together of separated things in this case an old newspaper item and the notes of a dead professor."
4525,"Among these sounds were frequent revolver shots surely not uncommon on a battlefield, but distinctly uncommon in an hospital."
4526,"These, having their backs on the hills, must look, of course, to the centre of the plain, which is just sixty yards from the front door of each dwelling."
4527,"We had protracted our sitting far into the night, and I had at length effected the manoeuvre of getting Glendinning as my sole antagonist."
4528,"I shall immediately depart for Dunkeld."""
4529,"A nervous fever was the consequence; during which he was nursed by the daughter of a poor cottager, under whose roof he lodged."
4530,"Besides, what I once was is not in the least relevant to my narrative; save perhaps the fact that during my service in India I was more at home amongst white bearded native teachers than amongst my brother officers."
4531,"Acting upon this hint, I made the division thus: 'A good glass in the Bishop's hostel in the Devil's seat forty one degrees and thirteen minutes northeast and by north main branch seventh limb east side shoot from the left eye of the death's head a bee line from the tree through the shot fifty feet out.'"""
4532,"He was drowsy near the end, and as darkness fell he dropped off into a troubled sleep."
4533,"On the afternoon of Friday, April th, then, Birch set out for the tomb with horse and wagon to transfer the body of Matthew Fenner."
4534,"Such was our frame of mind as we talked far into the night, till my uncle's growing drowsiness made me remind him to lie down for his two hour sleep."
4535,Two results presented themselves in the view he took of the future.
4536,"Them as ud help special, ud git special rewards gold an' sech No use balkin', fer they was millions of 'em daown thar."
4537,"Steeled by old ordeals in dissecting rooms, the doctor entered and looked about, stifling the nausea of mind and body that everything in sight and smell induced."
4538,"I shall relate events that impressed me with feelings which, from what I had been, have made me what I am."
4539,"Messrs. Ricci and Silva met in Water Street by the old man's front gate, and although they did not like the way the moon shone down upon the painted stones through the budding branches of the gnarled trees, they had more important things to think about than mere idle superstition."
4540,"""To what food,"" I thought, ""have they been accustomed in the well?"""
4541,"I made effort to arouse myself by aid of frequent Lafitte, and, all failing, I betook myself to a stray newspaper in despair."
4542,"He might, he half jestingly said, some day teach me to live or at least to possess some kind of conscious existence without any heart at all For his part, he was afflicted with a complication of maladies requiring a very exact regimen which included constant cold."
4543,"The Greek took it, but he handled it in no artist like way; at length he said: ""I must confess to you, my Lord, that I did not make this drawing."
4544,"The latter was indeed over my head, and completely hidden by the balloon, while the moon the moon itself in all its glory lay beneath me, and at my feet."
4545,"The sky was blue above, and the air impregnated with fragrance by the rare flowers that grew among the weeds."
4546,Alas nothing I have done.
4547,"Talking of drag ropes our own, it seems, has this moment knocked a man overboard from one of the small magnetic propellers that swarm in ocean below us a boat of about six thousand tons, and, from all accounts, shamefully crowded."
4548,"His stable, too, was appointed at a distance from the rest; and with regard to grooming and other necessary offices, none but the owner in person had ventured to officiate, or even to enter the enclosure of that particular stall."
4549,"One word, in truth, had alarmed her more than battles or sieges, during which she trusted Raymond's high command would exempt him from danger."
4550,"He was sent to Eton and afterwards to college; allowed from childhood the free use of large sums of money; thus enjoying from his earliest youth the independance which a boy with these advantages, always acquires at a public school."
4551,"I have, indeed, no abhorrence of danger, except in its absolute effect in terror."
4552,"Adrian observed a change during a visit that he afterward paid them; but he could not tell its extent, or divine the cause."
4553,"I could not sleep Saturday night, and turned on the lights regardless of the future."
4554,"What I have seen would blast ye to a mad statue of stone Back, back forward, forward look, ye puling lack wit"" And as he snarled the phrase under his breath he gestured anew; bringing to the sky a flash more blinding than either which had come before."
4555,"But, no, it is not so; I have my Mathilda, my consolation, and my hope."""
4556,"Any magazine cover hack can splash paint around wildly and call it a nightmare or a Witches' Sabbath or a portrait of the devil, but only a great painter can make such a thing really scare or ring true."
4557,"In the first days of his bondage he had turned to the gentle churchly faith endeared to him by the naive trust of his fathers, for thence stretched mystic avenues which seemed to promise escape from life."
4558,Evening Paper Monday June .
4559,"And the bearded man spoke no word, but watched me as we approached the lily lined shore."
4560,"You will, of course, ask 'where is the connexion?'"
4561,"I have just spoken of that morbid condition of the auditory nerve which rendered all music intolerable to the sufferer, with the exception of certain effects of stringed instruments."
4562,Who was I? What was I? Whence did I come?
4563,"At night, when she could leave me unperceived, she wandered through the house, or hung over the couches of her children; and in the day time would sink into a perturbed sleep, while her murmurs and starts betrayed the unquiet dreams that vexed her."
4564,That night the Duc was to sup alone.
4565,"I ask if in the calm of their measured reveries, if in the deep meditations which fill their hours, they feel the extasy of a youthful tyro in the school of pleasure?"
4566,"""LISTEN to me,"" said the Demon as he placed his hand upon my head."
4567,"The papers thrown on board our balloon are filled with fac similes of the coins, MSS., typography, c., c."
4568,"For a season all went happily, till without warning the storm burst."
4569,The rays were now perceptibly dimmer than they had been during the weeks of drifting.
4570,"I observed, with pleasure, that he did not go to the forest that day, but spent it in repairing the cottage and cultivating the garden."
4571,"In one corner, near a small fire, sat an old man, leaning his head on his hands in a disconsolate attitude."
4572,But Sheehan had reckoned without scientific knowledge of abnormal psychology and the effects of nervous stimulus.
4573,"""Alas"" said the old man, who gave me this account with tears in his eyes, ""it wrings my heart to see my lord in this state: when I heard that he was coming down here with you, my young lady, I thought we should have the happy days over again that we enjoyed during the short life of my lady your mother But that would be too much happiness for us poor creatures born to tears and that was why she was taken from us so soon; she was too beautiful and good for us."
4574,"Now that he's disappeared I go around to the club once in a while, but my nerves aren't what they were."
4575,"I could only do this on foot, as the mass of ruin was impracticable for a horse."
4576,"The winter, however, was spent cheerfully; and although the spring was uncommonly late, when it came its beauty compensated for its dilatoriness."
4577,CHAPTER II I now come to my own story.
4578,"I did not at first know what to make of this extraordinary phenomenon; not being able to believe that my rate of ascent had, of a sudden, met with so prodigious an acceleration."
4579,"We passed a considerable period at Oxford, rambling among its environs and endeavouring to identify every spot which might relate to the most animating epoch of English history."
4580,"Farewell, Raymond; be happy in having chosen the better part in life."
4581,"Elwood would, if awake, rouse him whenever he began to talk or rise in his sleep."
4582,"why cause he talk about it in he sleep dat's how I nose."""
4583,"My sense of restlessness returned, though I did not exhibit it."
4584,The men were discussing the strange death of the Mexican as he lay asleep; a death seemingly connected in some way with the terrible bolt of lightning which had struck and shaken the mountain.
4585,Those found were at least of as good quality as any likely to be possessed by these ladies.
4586,"""On the other hand, I was aware that arguments have not been wanting to prove the existence of a real and definite limit to the atmosphere, beyond which there is absolutely no air whatsoever."
4587,War was at last tacitly acknowledged between us.
4588,Already she fears for us.
4589,"But this was not the time for delay; I disencumbered the dogs of their dead companion, gave them a plentiful portion of food, and after an hour's rest, which was absolutely necessary, and yet which was bitterly irksome to me, I continued my route."
4590,"""Ah, Raymond, were we not happy?"
4591,"When one has nothing to do, then is the time to correspond with ones friends."
4592,"We quitted London on the th of March and remained a few days at Windsor, rambling in its beautiful forest."
4593,"When I returned, as often as it was necessary, I cleared their path from the snow and performed those offices that I had seen done by Felix."
4594,"In a balloon sufficiently perfect to retain its contents of coal gas unaltered, in quantity or amount, for six months, an equal quantity of hydrogen could not be maintained in equal purity for six weeks."
4595,"It was a fantastic chateau, much dilapidated, and indeed scarcely tenantable through age and neglect."
4596,"For as it was still echoing, I heard a creaking sound through the pitchy blackness, and knew that a lattice window was opening in that accursed old house beside us."
4597,His forehead was broad and low.
4598,"One window had lost its entire frame, and in the other there was not a trace of glass in the little diamond apertures."
4599,"""Why taint noffin but a skull somebody bin lef him head up de tree, and de crows done gobble ebery bit ob de meat off."""
4600,"The undertaker grew doubly lethargic in the bitter weather, and seemed to outdo even himself in carelessness."
4601,"""I continued to wind among the paths of the wood, until I came to its boundary, which was skirted by a deep and rapid river, into which many of the trees bent their branches, now budding with the fresh spring."
4602,But for one thing he would have been completely triumphant.
4603,The proximate cause was one of especial singularity.
4604,"When decomposition had proceeded to a very great extent when the flesh had in a great measure left the bones then, indeed, but not till then, should we lose sight of the corpse."
4605,"It is a mistake to fancy that horror is associated inextricably with darkness, silence, and solitude."
4606,"Even as it was, my hair stood on end, while I gazed afar down within the yawning abysses, letting imagination descend, as it were, and stalk about in the strange vaulted halls, and ruddy gulfs, and red ghastly chasms of the hideous and unfathomable fire."
4607,"His figure, lean to the proportions of a skeleton, was strangely bent and almost lost within the voluminous folds of his peculiar garment."
4608,"It was found, that, though at first the stop put to all circulation of property, had reduced those before supported by the factitious wants of society to sudden and hideous poverty, yet when the boundaries of private possession were thrown down, the products of human labour at present existing were more, far more, than the thinned generation could possibly consume."
4609,You have nothing to conceal.
4610,"From below no sound came, but only a distant, undefinable foetor; and it is not to be wondered at that the men preferred to stay on the edge and argue, rather than descend and beard the unknown Cyclopean horror in its lair."
4611,"By no means it is altogether beneath it that is to say provided we assume what should never for a moment be assumed that the Chess Player is a pure machine, and performs its operations without any immediate human agency."
4612,I had been there about three weeks when the first odd incident occurred.
4613,"Your cough "" ""It is nothing,"" he said; ""let us go on."
4614,"With the employment the power departs."""
4615,"From me, in an instant, all virtue dropped bodily as a mantle."
4616,"Ibid's masterpiece, on the other hand, was the famous Op."
4617,"."" and some thought a crashing sound followed the breaking off of the exclamation."
4618,"I do not know that any will peruse these pages except you, my friend, who will receive them at my death."
4619,"That sad little rake, the Prince of Wales, invited me to dinner."
4620,"""Ah"" he replied, ""very good I see how it is say no more Touching this matter of compensation, what you observe is very just: in fact it is excessively so."
4621,"It is obvious that here the victory can be decided the players being at all equal only by some recherché movement, the result of some strong exertion of the intellect."
4622,"As I entered his room he greeted me with a cheerful smile, and although evidently in much bodily pain, appeared to be, mentally, quite at ease."
4623,"""Mad and foolish boy"" exclaimed the angry lady, ""you have chosen with dreams and theories to overthrow my schemes for your own aggrandizement; but you shall not do the same by those I have formed for your sister."
4624,"I gnashed my teeth and ground them together, uttering a groan that came from my inmost soul."
4625,But at that time some force from outside must serve to liberate Their bodies.
4626,And this is a reflection which appears so exceedingly obvious that attempts to controvert it are received more frequently with a derisive smile than with anything like respectful attention.
4627,The sable divinity would not herself dwell with us always; but we could counterfeit her presence.
4628,"Can my soul, inextricably linked to this perishable frame, become lethargic and cold, even as this sensitive mechanism shall lose its youthful elasticity?"
4629,"When the ideas to which I have alluded first occurred to me, it was of course very natural that I should think of M. Valdemar."
4630,"After a time I seemed to hear the stairs and corridors creak at intervals as if with footsteps, and wondered if the other rooms were beginning to fill up."
4631,"He had directed, in great part, the moveable embellishments of the seven chambers, upon occasion of this great fete; and it was his own guiding taste which had given character to the masqueraders."
4632,This impression was sustained by his frequent references to flying through space and burning all that impeded his progress.
4633,"Chapter I sat one evening in my laboratory; the sun had set, and the moon was just rising from the sea; I had not sufficient light for my employment, and I remained idle, in a pause of consideration of whether I should leave my labour for the night or hasten its conclusion by an unremitting attention to it."
4634,"At first, I made an effort to shake off this nightmare of the soul."
4635,"I told him of the business of the evening, and a smile relaxed the contracted muscles."
4636,"Thus dwelt Iranon in Oonai, the city of lutes and dancing."
4637,"She is a little fat old lady, with blue eyes and a red face, and wears a huge cap like a sugar loaf, ornamented with purple and yellow ribbons."
4638,"The peasants were shut up in their hovels, and only a few of the most hardy ventured forth to seize the animals whom starvation had forced from their hiding places to seek for prey."
4639,"A diddler stations himself upon this bridge, respectfully informs all passers by of the new county law, which establishes a toll of one cent for foot passengers, two for horses and donkeys, and so forth, and so forth."
4640,"The eminent critic and biographer was born in the year , shortly after the extinction of the Roman rule in Gaul by Clovis."
4641,Our first impulse is to shrink from the danger.
4642,"Man is an animal that diddles, and there is no animal that diddles but man."
4643,"I admired virtue and good feelings and loved the gentle manners and amiable qualities of my cottagers, but I was shut out from intercourse with them, except through means which I obtained by stealth, when I was unseen and unknown, and which rather increased than satisfied the desire I had of becoming one among my fellows."
4644,"He would have given much for a lantern or bit of candle; but lacking these, bungled semi sightlessly as best he might."
4645,"""I protracted my visit as long as possible, and, while I maintained a most animated discussion with the Minister upon a topic which I knew well had never failed to interest and excite him, I kept my attention really riveted upon the letter."
4646,"Harsh but impressive polysyllables had replaced the customary mixture of bad Spanish and worse English, and of these only the oft repeated cry ""Huitzilopotchli"" seemed in the least familiar."
4647,"The songs which I so much admired, and which so confirmed my impression of the youth of my mistress, were executed by Madame Stephanie Lalande."
4648,It was for this reason that the N'bangus carried it off.
4649,"Alas for these latter days The world had grown old, and all its inmates partook of the decrepitude."
4650,"College had all but closed, and every doctor of the medical faculty was helping to fight the typhoid plague."
4651,"I can give you some veal a la Menehoult, with cauliflowers in veloute sauce after that a glass of Clos de Vougeot then your nerves will be sufficiently steadied."""
4652,"He told 'em he'd knowed of folks as prayed to gods that give somethin' ye reely need, an' says ef a good bunch o' men ud stand by him, he cud mebbe git a holt o' sarten paowers as ud bring plenty o' fish an' quite a bit o' gold."
4653,"He thought it rather silly that he bothered to keep on living at all, and got from a South American acquaintance a very curious liquid to take him to oblivion without suffering."
4654,"I was willing enough to stay mute while the affair was fresh and uncertain; but now that it is an old story, with public interest and curiosity gone, I have an odd craving to whisper about those few frightful hours in that ill rumoured and evilly shadowed seaport of death and blasphemous abnormality."
4655,It was Ann White who first gave definite shape to the sinister idle talk.
4656,"Burning with the chivalry of this determination, the great Touch and go, in the next 'Tea Pot,' came out merely with this simple but resolute paragraph, in reference to this unhappy affair: 'The editor of the ""Tea Pot"" has the honor of advising the editor of the ""Gazette"" that he the ""Tea Pot"" will take an opportunity in tomorrow morning's paper, of convincing him the ""Gazette"" that he the ""Tea Pot"" both can and will be his own master, as regards style; he the ""Tea Pot"" intending to show him the ""Gazette"" the supreme, and indeed the withering contempt with which the criticism of him the ""Gazette"" inspires the independent bosom of him the ""TeaPot"" by composing for the especial gratification ? of him the ""Gazette"" a leading article, of some extent, in which the beautiful vowel the emblem of Eternity yet so offensive to the hyper exquisite delicacy of him the ""Gazette"" shall most certainly not be avoided by his the ""Gazette's"" most obedient, humble servant, the ""Tea Pot."" ""So much for Buckingham""' In fulfilment of the awful threat thus darkly intimated rather than decidedly enunciated, the great Bullet head, turning a deaf ear to all entreaties for 'copy,' and simply requesting his foreman to 'go to the d l,' when he the foreman assured him the 'Tea Pot' that it was high time to 'go to press': turning a deaf ear to everything, I say, the great Bullet head sat up until day break, consuming the midnight oil, and absorbed in the composition of the really unparalleled paragraph, which follows: 'So ho, John how now?"
4657,"He returns not, let the consequences be what they may."
4658,And yet how unintelligible is this In all other matters we are justly instructed to regard Nature as supreme.
4659,"In a half stupor I crossed over to the couch and felt of his wrist, but found it cold, stiff, and pulseless."
4660,"Above all, the anxious mother, my own beloved and drooping Idris, claimed my earnest care; I could not reproach the anxiety that never for a moment slept in her heart, but I exerted myself to distract her attention from too keen an observation of the truth of things, of the near and nearer approaches of disease, misery, and death, of the wild look of our attendants as intelligence of another and yet another death reached us; for to the last something new occurred that seemed to transcend in horror all that had gone before."
4661,"I related my adventures of the night, my endeavours to find our lost one, and my disappointment."
4662,Nor were there any sea fowl to prey upon the dead things.
4663,"I saw the blurred outlines of the room, but from some point in space there seemed to be pouring a seething column of unrecognisable shapes or clouds, penetrating the solid roof at a point ahead and to the right of me."
4664,"The mathematical circle is a curve composed of an infinity of straight lines; but this idea of the circle this idea of it which, in regard to all earthly geometry, we consider as merely the mathematical, in contradistinction from the practical, idea is, in sober fact, the practical conception which alone we have any right to entertain in respect to those Titanic circles with which we have to deal, at least in fancy, when we suppose our system, with its fellows, revolving about a point in the centre of the galaxy."
4665,"His hotel, too, is not without attendants devoted to his interests."
4666,Her whole appearance awakened his deepest interest.
4667,"Suddenly Romero leaped from his bunk; pausing before me to gaze at the strange ring on my hand, which glistened queerly in every flash of lightning, and then staring intently in the direction of the mine shaft."
4668,My mother saw this and called me a genius: my father wept for joy and presented me with a treatise on Nosology.
4669,"When Idris entered, so far had Raymond forgotten himself, that he asked for my sister; one word, which told of her mysterious disappearance, recalled him."
4670,"Quickly he said, ""It's the finish but let's incinerate this."""
4671,"Books like Ignatius Donnelly's chimerical account of Atlantis he absorbed with zest, and a dozen obscure precursors of Charles Fort enthralled him with their vagaries."
4672,"You, who fancy that you can read the human soul, as your native lake reads each crevice and folding of its surrounding hills say what you think of me; king expectant, angel or devil, which?"""
4673,"""Smith"" said she, in reply to my very earnest inquiry; ""Smith why, not General John A. B. C.? Bless me, I thought you knew all about him This is a wonderfully inventive age Horrid affair that a bloody set of wretches, those Kickapoos fought like a hero prodigies of valor immortal renown."
4674,"One of his most intimate friends was a merchant who, from a flourishing state, fell, through numerous mischances, into poverty."
4675,"Alas I could never have believed that it was indeed Elinor that died if once when I spoke she had not lifted her almost benighted eyes, and for one moment like nought beside on earth, more lovely than a sunbeam, slighter, quicker than the waving plumage of a bird, dazzling as lightning and like it giving day to night, yet mild and faint, that smile came; it went, and then there was an end of all joy to me."""
4676,"It was through her beloved lessons that he cast off his old pursuits and gradually formed himself to become one among his fellow men; a distinguished member of society, a Patriot; and an enlightened lover of truth and virtue."
4677,"I pressed it, and, satisfied with the discovery, forbore to upraise the sash."
4678,"What the police did extract, came mainly from an immensely aged mestizo named Castro, who claimed to have sailed to strange ports and talked with undying leaders of the cult in the mountains of China."
4679,"""For some days I haunted the spot where these scenes had taken place, sometimes wishing to see you, sometimes resolved to quit the world and its miseries forever."
4680,"I, their eldest child, was born at Naples, and as an infant accompanied them in their rambles."
4681,"I now lamented that my great elevation would, in this case, prevent my taking as accurate a survey as I could wish."
4682,"Why had it not taken its victims in natural order, with myself second, from whichever direction it had approached?"
4683,"I, on the other hand, renewed my demand for action, and offered to accompany the cohort on any expedition it might undertake."
4684,"Drawing now my body upwards, with a prodigious exertion of muscular force, I succeeded, at the very first trial, in throwing the buckle over the car, and entangling it, as I had anticipated, in the circular rim of the wicker work."
4685,"Normal beings seldom visited the locality till the state police were formed, and even now only infrequent troopers patrol it."
4686,"To you first entering on life, to whom care is new and agony unknown, how can you understand what I have felt and still feel?"
4687,The effect was titanic altogether unthinkable and I might have stared indefinitely had not the sound of the piping seemed to grow stronger at my left.
4688,"Nor did my hate long confine itself to useless wishes; I began to reflect on the best means of securing him; and for this purpose, about a month after my release, I repaired to a criminal judge in the town and told him that I had an accusation to make, that I knew the destroyer of my family, and that I required him to exert his whole authority for the apprehension of the murderer."
4689,Its upper portion was draperied by one of the loose open sleeves now in fashion.
4690,"Fear has been said to be the parent of religion: even of that religion is it the generator, which leads its votaries to sacrifice human victims at its altars; but the religion which springs from happiness is a lovelier growth; the religion which makes the heart breathe forth fervent thanksgiving, and causes us to pour out the overflowings of the soul before the author of our being; that which is the parent of the imagination and the nurse of poetry; that which bestows benevolent intelligence on the visible mechanism of the world, and makes earth a temple with heaven for its cope."
4691,This seemed to dissipate the equivocal sensations which had hitherto annoyed me.
4692,"Still I would not hurry on; I would pause for ever on the recollections of these happy weeks; I would repeat every word, and how many do I remember, record every enchantment of the faery habitation."
4693,"Perhaps one reason though it cannot apply to uninformed strangers is that the natives are now repellently decadent, having gone far along that path of retrogression so common in many New England backwaters."
4694,"This morning, as I sat watching the wan countenance of my friend his eyes half closed and his limbs hanging listlessly I was roused by half a dozen of the sailors, who demanded admission into the cabin."
4695,"The queen's dextrous management was employed to prolong these absences, and gather together accusations."
4696,"She was alarmed by this account and passed several hours in looking for him, when the gates of Geneva were shut, and she was forced to remain several hours of the night in a barn belonging to a cottage, being unwilling to call up the inhabitants, to whom she was well known."
4697,They said the place had a febrile smell.
4698,"She was the living spirit of love to soften and attract; I might have become sullen in my study, rough through the ardour of my nature, but that she was there to subdue me to a semblance of her own gentleness."
4699,"If his heart had slept but a few years longer, he might have been saved; but it awoke in its infancy; it had power, but no knowledge; and it was ruined, even as a too early blowing bud is nipt by the killing frost."
4700,"For at last my uncle insisted on joining the search I had commenced, and after a certain night in that house he did not come away with me."
4701,"But he was impatient of the years that must intervene, he was frank of heart and fearless."
4702,The house was never rented again.
4703,"They arrested me because the revolver was in my hand, but released me in three hours, after they found it was apoplexy which had finished Tillinghast and saw that my shot had been directed at the noxious machine which now lay hopelessly shattered on the laboratory floor."
4704,"How sweet is the affection of others to such a wretch as I am It removes more than half my misfortune, and I feel as if I could die in peace now that my innocence is acknowledged by you, dear lady, and your cousin."""
4705,"Now at nine o'clock of every morning in the week, with the exception of Sunday, the streets of the city are, it is true, thronged with people."
4706,"She listened to me as she had done to the narration of my adventures, and sometimes took an interest in this species of information; but she did not, as I did, look on it as an integral part of her being, which having obtained, I could no more put off than the universal sense of touch."
4707,"Can the ship wrecked mariner, who spent with swimming, hears close behind the splashing waters divided by a shark which pursues him through the Atlantic, hope?"
4708,"The glory of life was gone for her; the roseate halo of love, which had imbued every object with its own colour, faded; she was content to take life as it was, and to make the best of leaden coloured reality."
4709,"Certain spots were almost forbidden territory, as he had learned at considerable cost."
4710,"My alliance with him was the pledge of my sincerity, my union with his sister, my children, his presumptive heirs, were the hostages of my truth."
4711,"I then reflected, and the thought made me shiver, that the creature whom I had left in my apartment might still be there, alive and walking about."
4712,"It was more common, for all who possessed landed property to secede to their estates, attended by whole troops of the indigent, to cut down their woods to erect temporary dwellings, and to portion out their parks, parterres and flower gardens, to necessitous families."
4713,"It advances with a gentle but gradually accelerated velocity, while the slight ripples it creates seem to break about the ivory side in divinest melody seem to offer the only possible explanation of the soothing yet melancholy music for whose unseen origin the bewildered voyager looks around him in vain."
4714,"It was a voluptuous scene, that masquerade."
4715,"Order, comfort, and even health, rose under his influence, as from the touch of a magician's wand."
4716,"""Well,"" replied my friend, ""that is all very fair, to be sure."
4717,"My earliest recollections of a school life, are connected with a large, rambling, Elizabethan house, in a misty looking village of England, where were a vast number of gigantic and gnarled trees, and where all the houses were excessively ancient."
4718,Adrian was now fifteen years of age.
4719,"By the time I came of age, I had made a small clearing in the thicket before the mould stained facade of the hillside, allowing the surrounding vegetation to encircle and overhang the space like the walls and roof of a sylvan bower."
4720,"Everybody was a listenin', an' we could hear lots o' folks on the wire a gaspin'."
4721,In the present instance I have no sympathy at least no pity for him who descends.
4722,and was he not consequently damned?
4723,My father felt this kindness; for a moment ambitious dreams floated before him; and he thought that it would be well to exchange his present pursuits for nobler duties.
4724,"The idea of this visit was torture to me, yet I could not refuse."
4725,"Come with me to my room; we will remain there till the hour agreed upon."""
4726,"She refused with a smile, reminding him that for the present his sister had promised to be patient."
4727,"Soon, alas was one to conquer."
4728,Their occasional deaths filled my infant heart with anguish.
4729,"Seizing him furiously by the wool with both hands, I tore out a vast quantity of black, and crisp, and curling material, and tossed it from me with every manifestation of disdain."
4730,"If she is condemned, I never shall know joy more."
4731,"Among other odd ideas, that of universal equality gained ground; and in the face of analogy and of God in despite of the loud warning voice of the laws of gradation so visibly pervading all things in Earth an Heaven wild attempts at an omni prevalent Democracy were made."
4732,"If this journey had taken place during my days of study and happiness, it would have afforded me inexpressible pleasure."
4733,"Here the galley paused not at all, but floated easily in the blue of the sky among fleecy clouds tinted with rose."
4734,"I had intended to pass by the remains of the stranger with averted face, but as I approached the body, I seemed to hear emanating from it a faint sound, as though life were not yet wholly extinct."
4735,"At this point the thought waves abruptly ceased, and the pale eyes of the dreamer or can I say dead man? commenced to glaze fishily."
4736,"The authorities at Tulane University could shed no light upon either cult or image, and now the detective had come to the highest authorities in the country and met with no more than the Greenland tale of Professor Webb."
4737,"It was from this vessel, indeed, that Pope Leo administered the royal unction which made of the hero nomad a Holy Roman Emperor."
4738,"When I joined the society it was my endeavor to introduce a better style of thinking and writing, and all the world knows how well I have succeeded."
4739,Its presence gave me a hope that by its means I might find my home.
4740,"Either he was born in strange shadow, or he'd found a way to unlock the forbidden gate."
4741,"I looked, therefore, for the extra baggage."
4742,"New feelings had arisen within her, which she was unable to express in writing to one whom she had only known in childhood; but we saw each other again, and our intimacy was renewed as if nothing had intervened to check it."
4743,"I displayed a peculiar erudition utterly unlike the fantastic, monkish lore over which I had pored in youth; and covered the flyleaves of my books with facile impromptu epigrams which brought up suggestions of Gay, Prior, and the sprightliest of the Augustan wits and rimesters."
4744,There was not a particle of charlatanerie about Dupin.
4745,"Re crossing the gorge on the Main Street bridge, I struck a region of utter desertion which somehow made me shudder."
4746,"What Roodmas horror fastened itself on the world in half human flesh and blood?"""
4747,"Captain Mann?"" here screamed some little feminine interloper from the farthest corner of the room."
4748,Behind him tiers of higher terraces towered aloft as far as he could see.
4749,"'Tiz de troof dat it iz eberry vord ob it."""
4750,"An innocent man is now imprisoned, charged with that crime of which you can point out the perpetrator."""
4751,But does not the appearance of Epidaphne justify me in calling it grotesque?
4752,I might as well have tried to lift the cathedral itself.
4753,"I was ready to sink from fatigue and hunger, but being surrounded by a crowd, I thought it politic to rouse all my strength, that no physical debility might be construed into apprehension or conscious guilt."
4754,"In every quarter, however, interest was intense; for the utter alienage of the thing was a tremendous challenge to scientific curiosity."
4755,"I took my passage in the same ship, but he escaped, I know not how."
4756,"Tired and perspiring despite many rests, he descended to the floor and sat a while on the bottom box to gather strength for the final wriggle and leap to the ground outside."
4757,"The nature of riches and influence forcibly confined the list of candidates to a few of the wealthiest; and it was much to be feared, that the ill humour and contention generated by this triennial struggle, would counterbalance its advantages in impartial eyes."
4758,"high aspirations cause the flow of my blood; my eyes seem to penetrate the cloudy midnight of time, and to discern within the depths of its darkness, the fruition of all my soul desires."
4759,"For some time I could not tell whether I was waking or sleeping, for the sound of flutes still rang shrilly in my ears; but when I saw on the floor the icy moonbeams and the outlines of a latticed Gothic window I decided I must be awake and in the castle at Kilderry."
4760,My tears flow; my mind is overshadowed by a cloud of disappointment.
4761,"The mounting flames had curled round the building, as it fell, and was destroyed."
4762,Tradition emphasises the uselessness of material barriers in halting a witch's motions; and who can say what underlies the old tales of broomstick rides through the night?
4763,"Besides, they observed that it appeared that I had brought the body from another place, and it was likely that as I did not appear to know the shore, I might have put into the harbour ignorant of the distance of the town of from the place where I had deposited the corpse."
4764,Beasts balk at the critters hosses wuss'n mules but when they got autos that was all right.
4765,"Now pause During my journey I might dream, and with buoyant wings reach the summit of life's high edifice."
4766,"He,"" he continued, pointing to the corpse, ""he suffered not in the consummation of the deed."
4767,"It was not so with me; and the question of rank and right dwindled to insignificance in my eyes, when I pictured the scene of suffering Athens."
4768,"The ultimate body thus escapes our rudimental senses, and we perceive only the shell which falls, in decaying, from the inner form; not that inner form itself; but this inner form, as well as the shell, is appreciable by those who have already acquired the ultimate life."
4769,A fine fire was blazing upon the hearth.
4770,"When their course is fulfilled, the dial begins to cast westward an uncertain shadow; the eye lids of day are opened, and birds and flowers, the startled vegetation, and fresh breeze awaken; the sun at length appears, and in majestic procession climbs the capitol of heaven."
4771,The medical testimony spoke confidently of the virtuous character of the deceased.
4772,"The bequest was conditioned upon my taking the name of the testator, the family, not the Christian name; my Christian name is Napoleon Bonaparte or, more properly, these are my first and middle appellations."
4773,"When, deceived by my weakness of vision, and the arts of the toilet, in respect to the age and charms of the strange lady, I demanded so enthusiastically of Talbot who she was, he concluded that I meant the younger beauty, as a matter of course, and so informed me, with perfect truth, that she was ""the celebrated widow, Madame Lalande."""
4774,"Was I left to perish of starvation in this subterranean world of darkness; or what fate, perhaps even more fearful, awaited me?"
4775,That was when they furled the Old Flag and put up a new Banner of Stripes and Stars.
4776,"He stretched out his arms toward the sun and prayed in a tongue no villager could understand; though indeed the villagers did not try very hard to understand, since their attention was mostly taken up by the sky and the odd shapes the clouds were assuming."
4777,"Nature, our mother, and our friend, had turned on us a brow of menace."
4778,Beyond these the critical art can but suggest.
4779,"Your allotted days of stupor have expired and, to morrow, I will myself induct you into the full joys and wonders of your novel existence."
4780,"Strange system riddle of the Sphynx, most awe striking that thus man remains, while we the individuals pass away."
4781,"And the death just avoided, was of that very character which I had regarded as fabulous and frivolous in the tales respecting the Inquisition."
4782,"Plague might not revive with the summer; but if it did, it should find us prepared."
4783,"""Do not think that I would intrude upon your confidence: I only ask your patience."
4784,"It was awful to hear them chanting in their churches at night, and especially during their main festivals or revivals, which fell twice a year on April th and October st."
4785,"I knew that sound well, too."
4786,"Let him bare his arm and transfix me with lightning this is also one of his attributes"" and the old man laughed."
4787,"""Cathuria,"" I would say to myself, ""is the abode of gods and the land of unnumbered cities of gold."
4788,"They seldom addressed each other, shunning explanation, each fearing any communication the other might make."
4789,"He rose and quitted the room with my nurse, and in a moment my father entered it."
4790,"When the latter died this sister was taken by her maternal relations: they had seldom seen one another, and were quite unlike in disposition."
4791,Chapter My present situation was one in which all voluntary thought was swallowed up and lost.
4792,"Even with the utterly lost, to whom life and death are equally jests, there are matters of which no jest can be made."
4793,Even the corpse seemed a matter in which I had no concern.
4794,"Footnotes Four Beasts Flavius Vospicus says, that the hymn here introduced was sung by the rabble upon the occasion of Aurelian, in the Sarmatic war, having slain, with his own hand, nine hundred and fifty of the enemy."
4795,"I fancy that I have investigated every nook and corner of the premises in which it is possible that the paper can be concealed."""
4796,"Castro, apparently, had told the truth when he said that it was wholly secret."
4797,"He gave me an illustrious name and noble station; the world's respect reflected from his own glory: all this joined to his own undying love, inspired me with sensations towards him, akin to those with which we regard the Giver of life."
4798,"At length the valley pained me through its memories of Eleonora, and I left it for ever for the vanities and the turbulent triumphs of the world."
4799,"The ship was crowded with passengers, and every thing was in the bustle attendant upon making sail."
4800,"Ill usage and length of years have driven me from the one, and estranged me from the other."
4801,"I advanced a step, and listened to the sound of his tranquil breathing."
4802,"Should it be read by the loser of the purse, he would hardly suspect it to have any reference to his own misfortune."
4803,"And I have read more of these things, and of many things besides, in the books men gave me when I was young and filled with wonder."
4804,"He had sinned against his own honour, by affirming, swearing to, a direct falsehood; true this he had palmed on a woman, and it might therefore be deemed less base by others not by him; for whom had he deceived?"
4805,"This, however, they found more easily planned than performed; since no sign of the party could be found in any direction."
4806,"Sights of woe now became familiar to me, and were I to tell all of anguish and pain that I witnessed, of the despairing moans of age, and the more terrible smiles of infancy in the bosom of horror, my reader, his limbs quivering and his hair on end, would wonder how I did not, seized with sudden frenzy, dash myself from some precipice, and so close my eyes for ever on the sad end of the world."
4807,"Methinks his spirit remains here as well as that dust, which, uncommunicable though it be, is more precious in its nothingness than aught else widowed earth clasps to her sorrowing bosom."
4808,YE who read are still among the living; but I who write shall have long since gone my way into the region of shadows.
4809,"Surely the glorious twins of Latona were not more welcome, when, in the infancy of the world, they were brought forth to beautify and enlighten this ""sterile promontory,"" than were this angelic pair to my lowly dwelling and grateful heart."
4810,I will not describe the city of Edinburgh.
4811,"It may have been gold, but I did not pause to examine it, for I was strangely affected by that which I had undergone."
4812,Mebbe he's tried it already they do sometimes go daown fer little spells afore they go fer good.
4813,"Where could we turn, and not find a desolation pregnant with the dire lesson of example?"
4814,"""Come we must go back,"" said the latter, ""the game's not up yet;"" and he again led the way to the tulip tree."
4815,"And at length I, Oinos, speaking some low words, demanded of the shadow its dwelling and its appellation."
4816,"As the country people poured into London, the citizens fled southwards they climbed the higher edifices of the town, fancying that they could discern the smoke and flames the enemy spread around them."
4817,"I confess that I entertained some feeble hope of his final deliverance, when I saw him lash himself to the box, and commit himself to the sea."" ""They sank as a matter of course,"" replied the captain, ""and that like a shot."
4818,For a moment I simply held my breath and waited.
4819,"Danced Alas, thought I, my dancing days are over Thus it is ever."
4820,We get up as good papers now in the P. R. E. T. T. Y. B. L. U. E. B. A. T. C. H. as any to be found even in Blackwood.
4821,But my evil destiny attended me still.
4822,Her internal pride and humility of manner were now more than ever at war.
4823,"It was as stout as the other, and apparently fitted in the same manner driven in nearly up to the head."
4824,"""Never, madam, but do tell me"" ""Or so inimitable grace?"" ""Never, upon my word But pray inform me"" ""Or so just an appreciation of stage effect?"""
4825,"From my youth I have said, I will be virtuous; I will dedicate my life for the good of others; I will do my best to extirpate evil and if the spirit who protects ill should so influence circumstances that I should suffer through my endeavour, yet while there is hope and hope there ever must be, of success, cheerfully do I gird myself to my task."
4826,"My immediate purpose is to place before the world, plainly, succinctly, and without comment, a series of mere household events."
4827,"She endeavoured to read his thought, and then answered with dignity, ""As you please."
4828,Watch me in the sky close by the Daemon Star.
4829,"I should not have ventured out that night; for the taint of thunder was in the clouds, and a hellish phosphorescence rose from the rank swamp at the bottom of the hollow."
4830,My soul acquired tone acquired temper.
4831,"However, he knew that he had actually become a somnambulist; for twice at night his room had been found vacant, though with all his clothing in place."
4832,"A moment more and the old walls again met my sight, while over them hovered a murky cloud; fragments of buildings whirled above, half seen in smoke, while flames burst out beneath, and continued explosions filled the air with terrific thunders."
4833,They spurn and hate me.
4834,"Since the affair of the letter, I had been in the habit of watching her house, and thus discovered that, about twilight, it was her custom to promenade, attended only by a negro in livery, in a public square overlooked by her windows."
4835,"""The nethermost caverns,"" wrote the mad Arab, ""are not for the fathoming of eyes that see; for their marvels are strange and terrific."
4836,"Frankness and social feelings were the essence of Raymond's nature; without them his qualities became common place; without these to spread glory over his intercourse with Perdita, his vaunted exchange of a throne for her love, was as weak and empty as the rainbow hues which vanish when the sun is down."
4837,I shook from head to foot as if I had had the most violent fit of the ague.
4838,"He is senseless and externally motionless; but the pulsation of the heart is still faintly perceptible; some traces of warmth remain; a slight color lingers within the centre of the cheek; and, upon application of a mirror to the lips, we can detect a torpid, unequal, and vacillating action of the lungs."
4839,"""But you could not have removed you could not have taken to pieces all articles of furniture in which it would have been possible to make a deposit in the manner you mention."
4840,"He paused, looking on me with wonder, and again turning towards the lifeless form of his creator, he seemed to forget my presence, and every feature and gesture seemed instigated by the wildest rage of some uncontrollable passion."
4841,In those days the rest of the world was nothing to me: all other men I never considered nor felt what they were; nor did I look on you as one of them.
4842,"The crew accepted the event in a sullen fashion, but it seemed to quiet Müller; who thereafter gave us no trouble."
4843,"It was some thirty or forty feet overhead, and constructed much as the side walls."
4844,"A greater number of rays actually fall upon the eye in the latter case, but, in the former, there is the more refined capacity for comprehension."
4845,"Perhaps a history such as mine had better die with me, but a feeling that I cannot define leads me on and I am too weak both in body and mind to resist the slightest impulse."
4846,"An arm, for instance, uplifted from the water, and thus deprived of its support, is an additional weight sufficient to immerse the whole head, while the accidental aid of the smallest piece of timber will enable us to elevate the head so as to look about."
4847,"We talked often in the night, and in the day, when I chiselled busts of him and carved miniature heads in ivory to immortalise his different expressions."
4848,"It has been easily calculated that, when the light proceeding from a star becomes so diffused as to be as weak as the natural light proceeding from the whole of the stars, in a clear and moonless night, then the star is no longer visible for any practical purpose."
4849,"He replied, but with an evident misunderstanding of my ideas upon the subject."
4850,"The articles taken out were deposited among the brambles, and the dog left to guard them, with strict orders from Jupiter neither, upon any pretence, to stir from the spot, nor to open his mouth until our return."
4851,"Raymond could not resist these signs of distress: he felt perhaps somewhat ashamed of the part he acted of the injured man, he who was in truth the injurer."
4852,"This final memory, whatever it was, proved too much for poor Curtis; and he collapsed completely before he could say more."
4853,"She was evidently in the last stage of a dropsy; and her figure resembled nearly that of the huge puncheon of October beer which stood, with the head driven in, close by her side, in a corner of the chamber."
4854,"As for instance, a typhus fever has been brought by ships to one sea port town; yet the very people who brought it there, were incapable of communicating it in a town more fortunately situated."
4855,"It was a melancholy pleasure to me to listen to his inspired words; to catch for a moment the light of his eyes; to feel a transient sympathy and then to awaken from the delusion, again to know that all this was nothing, a dream a shadow for that there was no reallity for me; my father had for ever deserted me, leaving me only memories which set an eternal barrier between me and my fellow creatures."
4856,Hab for to keep mighty tight eye pon him noovers.
4857,"Let somebody lead the way I don't know your roads very well, but I've an idea there might be a shorter cut across lots."
4858,"And they became accursed, and were still."
4859,"I use this expression, because the suddenness of their departure put me in mind of nothing so much as the extinguishment of a candle by a puff of the breath."
4860,"She answered my reasonings more briefly, declaring with disdain, that the reason was hers; and, until I could persuade her that the past could be unacted, that maturity could go back to the cradle, and that all that was could become as though it had never been, it was useless to assure her that no real change had taken place in her fate."
4861,"At length the visitors, apprised of a party of State Police which had come from Aylesbury that morning in response to the first telephone reports of the Frye tragedy, decided to seek out the officers and compare notes as far as practicable."
4862,"He was sent to Cumberland; but the plan of correspondence between the lovers, arranged by Evadne, was effectually hidden from her."
4863,"Yet, as he had lived on for months nearly in the same state, he did not inspire us with any immediate fear; and, though he talked of death as an event most familiar to his thoughts, he did not cease to exert himself to render others happy, or to cultivate his own astonishing powers of mind."
4864,"Selling a portion of his estate to obtain the requisite money, he outfitted an expedition and sailed for the Congo."
4865,"We met baggage waggons, and many females of high and low rank returning to Fairy or Kishan, there to wait the issue of the expected day."
4866,I can conceive nothing more sublimating than the strange peril and novelty of an adventure such as this.
4867,"I dreaded lest the continued pressure of misfortune had, at length, fairly unsettled the reason of my friend."
4868,This is one of those miserable thoroughfares which intervene between the Rue Richelieu and the Rue St. Roch.
4869,The flames of the city bent beneath it; and the smoke and dust arising from the ruins was dissipated.
4870,"Like some huge and sable feathered condor, we were slowly drifting down towards the Bridge of Sighs, when a thousand flambeaux flashing from the windows, and down the staircases of the Ducal Palace, turned all at once that deep gloom into a livid and preternatural day."
4871,"Every night I was oppressed by a slow fever, and I became nervous to a most painful degree; the fall of a leaf startled me, and I shunned my fellow creatures as if I had been guilty of a crime."
4872,"Yet these conceptions were formulated in rustic words wholly inadequate to convey them, a circumstance which drove me to the conclusion that if a true dream world indeed existed, oral language was not its medium for the transmission of thought."
4873,"The shaft of light entered the door at an upward angle, and I peered in to see if I could glimpse anything, but all in vain."
4874,"I had traced the secret to its ultimate result, and that result was the nail."
4875,"But do you not see, that, under the idea of exalting me, he is chalking out a new path for himself; a path of action from which he has long wandered?"
4876,"He recognises what is played through feint, by the air with which it is thrown upon the table."
4877,"All slept all England slept; and from my window, commanding a wide prospect of the star illumined country, I saw the land stretched out in placid rest."
4878,"It is a pocket book, and ""Has any gentleman lost a pocketbook?"" he cries."
4879,I will therefore describe it as I afterwards saw it from a position on the stone wall at the southern extreme of the amphitheatre.
4880,He derives pleasure from even the most trivial occupations bringing his talent into play.
4881,Shall I disturb this calm by mingling in the world?
4882,"Shall the daughter of the noble, though prodigal Zaimi, appear a beggar before her compeers or inferiors superiors she had none."
4883,"Williams was a dreamer, and only twenty three, and when he moved into the ancient house he felt a strangeness and a breath of cosmic wind about the grey wizened man in the next room."
4884,"The vast, barn like length of the old bridge gleamed spectrally in the moonlight, and I saw that the ties were safe for at least a few feet within."
4885,"""Perdita,"" I had said, ""some day you will discover that you have done wrong in again casting Raymond on the thorns of life."
4886,"Morning dawned before I arrived at the village of Chamounix; I took no rest, but returned immediately to Geneva."
4887,"I had hitherto supposed him to be the murderer of my brother, and I eagerly sought a confirmation or denial of this opinion."
4888,"This undercurrent of thought, often soothed me amidst distress, and even agony."
4889,"Though the rapid drop of the monster had been seen, no one could say just what the creature was like; those who had glimpsed it called it simply a devil."
4890,"For eighty thousand years Pth'thya l'yi had lived in Y'ha nthlei, and thither she had gone back after Obed Marsh was dead."
4891,"The labour necessary to bring the lands to this sort of culture, employed and fed the offcasts of the diminished manufactories."
4892,"""Which way mus go now, Massa Will?"" he asked."
4893,"Still, he was very old and very feeble, and there were two visitors."
4894,"The insane yarn I was hearing interested me profoundly, for I fancied there was contained within it a sort of crude allegory based upon the strangenesses of Innsmouth and elaborated by an imagination at once creative and full of scraps of exotic legend."
4895,"This always happens when it is above their own, and very usually when it is below."
4896,"What I have described in the Frenchman, was merely the result of an excited, or perhaps of a diseased intelligence."
4897,Every second I was consumed with a mixture of fear and curiosity.
4898,"He died embracing the sod, which was piled above his breast, when he was placed beside the beings whom he regretted with such wild despair."
4899,I made the attempt and failed.
4900,"""The measures, then,"" he continued, ""were good in their kind, and well executed; their defect lay in their being inapplicable to the case, and to the man."
4901,"That was in the gaoler had gone mad and babbled of a small, white fanged furry thing which scuttled out of Keziah's cell, and not even Cotton Mather could explain the curves and angles smeared on the grey stone walls with some red, sticky fluid."
4902,"Memory seemed to pick itself up where it had left off, and the horror of the sight that had prostrated him burst in upon him again."
4903,"Sometimes, on the very brink of certainty, I failed; yet still I clung to the hope which the next day or the next hour might realize."
4904,"Something made him feel that motors did not belong in the realm he was seeking, so he left his car at the edge of the forest, and putting the great key in his coat pocket walked on up the hill."
4905,"As the summer drew on he felt dimly that something ought to be done about the lurking terrors of the upper Miskatonic valley, and about the monstrous being known to the human world as Wilbur Whateley."
4906,although there is a terrible ambiguity in the statement.
4907,"I sometimes expostulated with Perdita on the subject of her reserve; but she rejected my counsels, while her daughter's sensibility excited in her a tenderness still more passionate."
4908,He sets his arms a kimbo.
4909,"Yet, at this distant day, let me do him the simple justice to acknowledge that I can recall no occasion when the suggestions of my rival were on the side of those errors or follies so usual to his immature age and seeming inexperience; that his moral sense, at least, if not his general talents and worldly wisdom, was far keener than my own; and that I might, to day, have been a better, and thus a happier man, had I less frequently rejected the counsels embodied in those meaning whispers which I then but too cordially hated and too bitterly despised."
4910,The lady lived; and with redoubled ardor I betook myself to the task of restoration.
4911,Past that beacon for a century have swept the majestic barques of the seven seas.
4912,"It was my task each day to visit the various families assembled in our town, and when the weather permitted, I was glad to prolong my ride, and to muse in solitude over every changeful appearance of our destiny, endeavouring to gather lessons for the future from the experience of the past."
4913,"Such was the depth of my emotion that I had no feeling of what caused my distress, my thoughts even wandered to many indifferent objects; but still neither moving limb or feature my tears fell untill, as if the fountains were exhausted, they gradually subsided, and I awoke to life as from a dream."
4914,"O ye heart strings of mine, could ye be torn asunder, and my soul not spend itself in tears of blood for sorrow Idris, after the first shock, regained a portion of fortitude."
4915,Little Clara accompanied us; the poor child did not well understand what was going forward.
4916,The condition of this bridge would determine my next step.
4917,"With new courage, therefore, I pressed on, and in two days arrived at a wretched hamlet on the seashore."
4918,Poor Johansen's handwriting almost gave out when he wrote of this.
4919,"She went on, feeling that, if she had paused for a moment, the checked waters of misery would have deluged her soul, that her wrecked hopes would raise their wailing voices, and that those who now echoed her mirth, and provoked her repartees, would have shrunk in fear from her convulsive despair."
4920,"He promised that he would come and see me again; and bade me take cheer, and to encourage what happy thoughts I could, untill time and fortitude should overcome my misery, and I could again mingle in society."
4921,"Your heart I fear, replied Diotima, was broken by your sufferings but if you had struggled if when you found all hope of earthly happiness wither within you while desire of it scorched your soul if you had near you a friend to have raised you to the contemplation of beauty the search of knowledge you would have found perhaps not new hopes spring within you but a new life distinct from that of passion by which you had before existed relate to me what this misery was that thus engroses you tell me what were the vicissitudes of feeling that you endured on earth after death our actions worldly interest fade as nothing before us but the traces of our feelings exist the memories of those are what furnish us here with eternal subject of meditation."
4922,"Then we turned to the left into High Street, where the going was smoother; flying by stately old mansions of the early republic and still older colonial farmhouses, passing the Lower Green and Parker River, and finally emerging into a long, monotonous stretch of open shore country."
4923,"Thither would I go were I old enough to find the way, and thither shouldst thou go an thou wouldst sing and have men listen to thee."
4924,"The socket of the lost eye presented, it is true, a frightful appearance, but he no longer appeared to suffer any pain."
4925,"Goaded, by the interference, into a rage more than demoniacal, I withdrew my arm from her grasp and buried the axe in her brain."
4926,"Some, in the true spirit of reckless enterprise, went on board a ship of an hundred and twenty guns; the vast hull drifted with the tide out of the bay, and after many hours its crew of landsmen contrived to spread a great part of her enormous canvass the wind took it, and while a thousand mistakes of the helmsman made her present her head now to one point, and now to another, the vast fields of canvass that formed her sails flapped with a sound like that of a huge cataract; or such as a sea like forest may give forth when buffeted by an equinoctial north wind."
4927,But I wander from my relation let woe come at its appointed time; I may at this stage of my story still talk of happiness.
4928,"I studied the loose, antique masonry of the walls in the fungus light and the feeble rays which stole in from the street through the screened windows; and once, when the noisome atmosphere of the place seemed about to sicken me, I opened the door and looked up and down the street, feasting my eyes on familiar sights and my nostrils on the wholesome air."
4929,"The barrel to which I was attached sunk very little farther than half the distance between the bottom of the gulf and the spot at which I leaped overboard, before a great change took place in the character of the whirlpool."
4930,"I did so, as follows: ""M."
4931,"The thing came abruptly and unannounced; a daemon, rat like scurrying from pits remote and unimaginable, a hellish panting and stifled grunting, and then from that opening beneath the chimney a burst of multitudinous and leprous life a loathsome night spawned flood of organic corruption more devastatingly hideous than the blackest conjurations of mortal madness and morbidity."
4932,"I proposed the enterprize of poaching on his demesne to my few remaining comrades, who were the most determined and lawless of the crew; but they all shrunk from the peril; so I was left to achieve my revenge myself."
4933,"Stopping short, I clasped my hands, and with the fervour of a new proselyte, cried, ""Doubt me not, Adrian, I also will become wise and good"" and then quite overcome, I wept aloud."
4934,"I must have lived years in this place, but I cannot measure the time."
4935,According to one story nothing further happened save that the stuffed goddess became a symbol of supremacy for whatever tribe might possess it.
4936,"The images of health and hope which I presented to her, made her with a smile consent."
4937,"The former pays the reward, pockets the treasure and decamps."
4938,Those of 'Oppodeldoc' will not scan.
4939,"The light became more and more oppressive to me, and the heat wearying me as I walked, I sought a place where I could receive shade."
4940,"The grapnel caught at , P.M., precisely; and thus the whole voyage was completed in seventy five hours; or rather less, counting from shore to shore."
4941,"I forbear to depict my sensations upon the gallows; although here, undoubtedly, I could speak to the point, and it is a topic upon which nothing has been well said."
4942,"The picture was then produced which the servant had found in her pocket; and when Elizabeth, in a faltering voice, proved that it was the same which, an hour before the child had been missed, she had placed round his neck, a murmur of horror and indignation filled the court."
4943,"I wish merely to caution you against the whole tone of L'Etoile's suggestion, by calling your attention to its ex parte character at the outset."
4944,"These were the exact words, my beloved husband, were they not?"" ""They were,"" I said; ""you have an excellent memory; and assuredly, my beautiful Eugenie, there is no disposition on my part to evade the performance of the trivial promise they imply."
4945,"I was, it appeared, in very bad luck."
4946,"If not positively ugly, she was not, I think, very far from it."
4947,So I was entirely thrown upon my own resourses.
4948,"There is nothing more lovely, to which the heart more yearns than a free spirited boy, gentle, brave, and generous."
4949,"As yet, thank God, I am equal to the government of the town; and I look only to the present."
4950,"He died soon after, leaving two children, a son and a daughter."
4951,"""After a thorough investigation of every portion of the house, without farther discovery, the party made its way into a small paved yard in the rear of the building, where lay the corpse of the old lady, with her throat so entirely cut that, upon an attempt to raise her, the head fell off."
4952,"Klenze's ivory image, but the sight of an automatic pistol calmed them."
4953,"""Nitre?"" he asked, at length."
4954,"Could I be other than all ear, to one who seemed to govern the whole earth in his grasping imagination, and who only quailed when he attempted to rule himself."
4955,Even Perdita will rejoice.
4956,"At any rate, it would form my only chance of deliverance, and there was nothing to do but try it."
4957,"She hung over the patient in agony, which was not mitigated when her thoughts wandered towards her babes, for whom she feared infection."
4958,"Brown Jenkin, too, was always a little nearer at the last, and its yellowish white fangs glistened shockingly in that unearthly violet phosphorescence."
4959,He spoke with pride; he felt injured.
4960,"It now only remains to give you the full translation of the characters upon the parchment, as unriddled."
4961,""" Odenheimer, restaurateur."
4962,"To England, therefore, I was bound, and it was understood that my union with Elizabeth should take place immediately on my return."
4963,"In its original form, this law offered a premium for cat heads fourpence a piece, but the Senate succeeded in amending the main clause, so as to substitute the word ""tails"" for ""heads."""
4964,"Then I would hasten to my desk, weave the new found web of mind in firm texture and brilliant colours, leaving the fashioning of the material to a calmer moment."
4965,"The gold seeker, whom I sincerely pitied, at length clambered from the pit, with the bitterest disappointment imprinted upon every feature, and proceeded, slowly and reluctantly, to put on his coat, which he had thrown off at the beginning of his labor."
4966,I felt then the consummation of my fate.
4967,I owe you six years of unalloyed happiness.
4968,"It is of a brilliant gold color about the size of a large hickory nut with two jet black spots near one extremity of the back, and another, somewhat longer, at the other."
4969,"He is so gentle, yet so wise; his mind is so cultivated, and when he speaks, although his words are culled with the choicest art, yet they flow with rapidity and unparalleled eloquence."
4970,Was I tottering on the brink of cosmic horrors beyond man's power to bear?
4971,"One of a large herd of unkempt Mexicans attracted thither from the neighbouring country, he at first commanded attention only because of his features; which though plainly of the Red Indian type, were yet remarkable for their light colour and refined conformation, being vastly unlike those of the average ""Greaser"" or Piute of the locality."
4972,"It is midnight; the breeze blows fairly, and the watch on deck scarcely stir."
4973,He was clad with a striking simplicity.
4974,Raymond started angrily when he saw me.
4975,"I took heart, therefore, and determined to prosecute the ""entirely original,"" as they say on the covers of the magazines, at whatever cost of study and pains."
4976,"""For its introduction into common use for purposes of aerostation, we are indebted to Mr. Charles Green."
4977,"Here I paused, to ascertain beyond a doubt whether he really knew of whom I thought."
4978,"But I am a man of my word mark that you shall have her, boy, plum and all, when you please."
4979,"""What can he be?"" said big Miss Bas Bleu."
4980,"In June, , a letter arrived from M. Verhaeren, telling of the finding of the stuffed goddess."
4981,"I have said that, in the first years of our connexion as schoolmates, my feelings in regard to him might have been easily ripened into friendship: but, in the latter months of my residence at the academy, although the intrusion of his ordinary manner had, beyond doubt, in some measure, abated, my sentiments, in nearly similar proportion, partook very much of positive hatred."
4982,"On the twenty first of June, it was said that an hour before noon, a black sun arose: an orb, the size of that luminary, but dark, defined, whose beams were shadows, ascended from the west; in about an hour it had reached the meridian, and eclipsed the bright parent of day."
4983,"The rage and yells of the wounded man, the howling execrations of his comrade, which I answered with equal bitterness and fury, echoed through the dell; morning broke more and more, ill accordant in its celestial beauty with our brute and noisy contest."
4984,"But I was not prepared to find them, upon close examination, evidently enjoying a high degree of health, breathing with the greatest ease and perfect regularity, and evincing not the slightest sign of any uneasiness whatever."
4985,"At a terrific height directly above us, and upon the very verge of the precipitous descent, hovered a gigantic ship of, perhaps, four thousand tons."
4986,Yet it was only at intervals in moments of intense excitement that this peculiarity became more than slightly noticeable in Ligeia.
4987,"The greatest portion, however those especially who belabor the populace with clubs are the principal courtiers of the palace, executing as in duty bound, some laudable comicality of the king's."
4988,I am alone and miserable; man will not associate with me; but one as deformed and horrible as myself would not deny herself to me.
4989,"The woods around afforded us shade, the river secured to us a constant supply of water; nay, detachments were employed in furnishing the army with ice, which had been laid up on Haemus, and Athos, and the mountains of Macedonia, while cooling fruits and wholesome food renovated the strength of the labourers, and made us bear with less impatience the weight of the unrefreshing air."
4990,In charity no one gave more liberally or with a worse grace.
4991,"No defect in the machinery or carelessness in the men had been noticed, yet without warning the ship was racked from end to end with a colossal shock."
4992,"Des idees ah here was the idiotic thought that destroyed me Des idees ah therefore it was that I coveted them so madly I felt that their possession could alone ever restore me to peace, in giving me back to reason."
4993,"""The day is ours,"" he cried, ""the Turks fly from the bayonet."""
4994,This continued for perhaps a minute.
4995,"Presently the old man drew back his hood and pointed to the family resemblance in his face, but I only shuddered, because I was sure that the face was merely a devilish waxen mask."
4996,"There are horrors beyond horrors, and this was one of those nuclei of all dreamable hideousness which the cosmos saves to blast an accursed and unhappy few."
4997,There was but one good and one evil in the world life and death.
4998,"The harbour, long clogged with sand, was enclosed by an ancient stone breakwater; on which I could begin to discern the minute forms of a few seated fishermen, and at whose end were what looked like the foundations of a bygone lighthouse."
