4999,"He begged me, however, not to let any mere courtesy towards himself interfere with the gratification of my curiosity, and said that he would ride on leisurely, so that I might overtake him during the day, or, at all events, during the next."
5000,"Taking advantage of the disorganisation of both college work and municipal health regulations, he managed to get a recently deceased body smuggled into the university dissecting room one night, and in my presence injected a new modification of his solution."
5001,"And by the way, it does seem something like a coincidence, does it not that our friend, Captain Smitherton, here, has been absent exactly a year also a year to day"" SMITHERTON."
5002,"""Pierre,"" cried the host, ""change this gentleman's plate, and give him a side piece of this rabbit au chat."""
5003,"And, therefore, it was thought a matter of supererogation to withdraw the nails and open the windows."
5004,"There are secrets, you know, which might have come down from old Salem times, and Cotton Mather tells even stranger things."
5005,"I calc'late her man is as good a husban' as ye kin find this side of Aylesbury; an' ef ye knowed as much abaout the hills as I dew, ye wouldn't ast no better church weddin' nor her'n."
5006,"They were a kind of fugue, with recurrent passages of the most captivating quality, but to me were notable for the absence of any of the weird notes I had overheard from my room below on other occasions."
5007,"He now said: ""Yes; no; I have been sleeping and now now I am dead."""
5008,"It was here that he first came into conflict with the college authorities, and was debarred from future experiments by no less a dignitary than the dean of the medical school himself the learned and benevolent Dr. Allan Halsey, whose work in behalf of the stricken is recalled by every old resident of Arkham."
5009,"I passed from the palace of Sweet Waters to the plain on which the encampment lay, and found its inhabitants in commotion."
5010,This idea made me shudder and recalled me to action.
5011,To a sensitive mind there is always more or less of the shocking in such exhibitions; and I do not wish to spoil your appetite for dinner.
5012,"As the ages passed, first one, then another of the four great turrets were left to ruin, until at last but a single tower housed the sadly reduced descendants of the once mighty lords of the estate."
5013,"Meantime the ponderous and terrific Scythe of Time for I now discovered the literal import of that classical phrase had not stopped, nor was it likely to stop, in its career."
5014,"The plague I am told is in Constantinople, perhaps I have imbibed its effluvia perhaps disease is the real cause of my prognostications."
5015,"THERE are few persons, even among the calmest thinkers, who have not occasionally been startled into a vague yet thrilling half credence in the supernatural, by coincidences of so seemingly marvellous a character that, as mere coincidences, the intellect has been unable to receive them."
5016,The nobles did not hesitate to express their fear; the other party endeavoured to treat the matter lightly.
5017,"I LIVED far from the busy haunts of men, and the rumour of wars or political changes came worn to a mere sound, to our mountain abodes."
5018,"Have you got him here?"""
5019,"In all the cities of Cydathria and in the lands beyond the Bnazic desert gay faced children laughed at his olden songs and tattered robe of purple; but Iranon stayed ever young, and wore wreaths upon his golden head whilst he sang of Aira, delight of the past and hope of the future."
5020,Hermann would have died a thousand deaths rather than acknowledge his inability to understand anything and everything in the universe that had ever been written about the duello.
5021,"They all lay in stone houses in Their great city of R'lyeh, preserved by the spells of mighty Cthulhu for a glorious resurrection when the stars and the earth might once more be ready for Them."
5022,"Once coming in a little the worse for Wine to which he was addicted he endeavour'd to lampoon me by means of an Impromptu in verse, writ on the Surface of the Table; but lacking the Aid he usually had in his Composition, he made a bad grammatical Blunder."
5023,"It was sunny weather, and I was glad of that."
5024,"The town and country folk scarcely dared speak aloud, and the men of Libo's entourage, who had been there nearly a week, seemed to have caught something of the nameless dread."
5025,"And thus, the thicket of the Barrière du Roule having been already suspected, the idea of placing the articles where they were found, might have been naturally entertained."
5026,"""The family, after having been thus occupied for a short time, extinguished their lights and retired, as I conjectured, to rest."""
5027,"Now I have already said that Madame Eugenie Lalande that is to say, Simpson spoke the English language but very little better than she wrote it, and for this reason she very properly never attempted to speak it upon ordinary occasions."
5028,"And then there came to me the crowning horror of all the unbelievable, unthinkable, almost unmentionable thing."
5029,"And indeed your Excellencies may well imagine that, after a residence of five years upon a planet not only deeply interesting in its own peculiar character, but rendered doubly so by its intimate connection, in capacity of satellite, with the world inhabited by man, I may have intelligence for the private ear of the States' College of Astronomers of far more importance than the details, however wonderful, of the mere voyage which so happily concluded."
5030,"The jade amulet now reposed in a niche in our museum, and sometimes we burned strangely scented candles before it."
5031,"It was clear to me, however, that the shutter belonging to the window at the head of the bed, would, if swung fully back to the wall, reach to within two feet of the lightning rod."
5032,"This occurred in , and created, at the time, a very profound sensation wherever it was made the subject of converse."
5033,"Public interest in the Whateleys subsided after most of the country folk had seen the baby, and no one bothered to comment on the swift development which that newcomer seemed every day to exhibit."
5034,"The tottering waterfront hovels north of the river were reputedly connected by hidden tunnels, being thus a veritable warren of unseen abnormalities."
5035,"Indeed, the crumbling of the adobe hut and the closing of the rock fissure by a subsequent avalanche had helped to efface even the scene from recollection."
5036,"It had taken, with inconceivable rapidity, the character of a gigantic mantle of rare flame, extending from horizon to horizon."
5037,"We may, however, presume he would not have adopted it but for some occasion of especial state."
5038,It was in the latter end of September that I again quitted my native country.
5039,The two lived an exceedingly retired life were reputed to have money.
5040,"But in Kingsport strange tales are abroad, and even the Terrible Old Man admits a thing untold by his grandfather."
5041,"""As to the likelihood of escaping,"" said Adrian, ""ten years hence the cold stars may shine on the graves of all of us; but as to my peculiar liability to infection, I could easily prove, both logically and physically, that in the midst of contagion I have a better chance of life than you."
5042,No father could claim the gratitude of his child so completely as I should deserve theirs.
5043,"And if ye toil only that ye may toil more, when shall happiness find you?"
5044,"First he was to visit Evadne, and then to hasten to the palace of the Protectorate."
5045,"He had sufficient strength to get home, but was so clearly in need of medical aid that Dr. Hartwell was summoned at once."
5046,"But, as it is my design never to return or not for some weeks or not until certain concealments are effected the gaining of time is the only point about which I need give myself any concern.'"
5047,"On the th, as my impulse to search out the mystery of the temple waxed still more insistent, a great disappointment befell me; for I found that the materials needed to replenish the portable light had perished in the mutiny of those pigs in July."
5048,"Having cut off my ears, however, he discovered signs of animation."
5049,"""Felix conducted the fugitives through France to Lyons and across Mont Cenis to Leghorn, where the merchant had decided to wait a favourable opportunity of passing into some part of the Turkish dominions."
5050,"And then came, as if to my final and irrevocable overthrow, the spirit of PERVERSENESS."
5051,"Dr. Job Ives diagnosed the trouble as some infantile fever, though others declared it was more of a mere wasting away or decline."
5052,"And one by one dropped the revellers in the blood bedewed halls of their revel, and died each in the despairing posture of his fall."
5053,"But they were awed as I had been, at the change of his appearance."
5054,It keeps up a perpetual fever in my veins; it frets my immedicable wound; it is instinct with poison.
5055,"""But let us proceed to the Amontillado."""
5056,I repeat his persuasions in faint terms and cannot give you at the same time the tone and gesture that animated them.
5057,"It was designed to open in my direction, hence I saw after drawing the bolt and finding other fastenings in place it was not a favourable one for forcing."
5058,The guest is bidden to be of good cheer that the fates will take care of him.
5059,"It was without warning that Romero, after clambering down one of the many rude ladders, broke into a run and left me alone."
5060,From my infancy I was noted for the docility and humanity of my disposition.
5061,"""Upon this discovery I was so sanguine as to consider the enigma solved; for the phrase 'main branch, seventh limb, east side,' could refer only to the position of the skull upon the tree, while 'shoot from the left eye of the death's head' admitted, also, of but one interpretation, in regard to a search for buried treasure."
5062,"He was led, we must presume, to this wild hypothesis by mere analogy in the first instance; but, this being the case, he should have at least adhered to analogy in its development."
5063,"I heard a clock strike somewhere not ours, for that was not a striking clock and my morbid fancy found in this a new starting point for idle wanderings."
5064,"All the torches now began to dim, and the cries of frightened legionaries mingled with the unceasing screams of the tethered horses."
5065,"""Your existing sense organs ears first, I think will pick up many of the impressions, for they are closely connected with the dormant organs."
5066,The earth was spread out as an highway for him; the heavens built up as a canopy for him.
5067,"'It is impossible,' it urges, 'that a person so well known to thousands as this young woman was, should have passed three blocks without some one having seen her.'"
5068,"""I had admired the perfect forms of my cottagers their grace, beauty, and delicate complexions; but how was I terrified when I viewed myself in a transparent pool At first I started back, unable to believe that it was indeed I who was reflected in the mirror; and when I became fully convinced that I was in reality the monster that I am, I was filled with the bitterest sensations of despondence and mortification."
5069,"It was bound in rusty iron, and no means was provided for working the formidable lock."
5070,"Thrown by accident into her society many years ago, my soul from our first meeting, burned with fires it had never before known; but the fires were not of Eros, and bitter and tormenting to my spirit was the gradual conviction that I could in no manner define their unusual meaning or regulate their vague intensity."
5071,"This was in and , when my uncle had just begun his medical practice; and before leaving for the front he heard much of it from his elder professional colleagues."
5072,"In the afternoon, however, it came on to rain heavily; and, supposing that she would remain all night at her aunt's, as she had done under similar circumstances before, he did not think it necessary to keep his promise."
5073,"With high cheek bones, a large hawk nose, retreating chin, fallen under jaw, and huge protruding white eyes, the expression of his countenance, although tinged with a species of dogged indifference to matters and things in general, was not the less utterly solemn and serious beyond all attempts at imitation or description."
5074,"Here Monsieur De Kock bowed low, kissed his hand with much ceremony, and took wine with Ma'm'selle Laplace."
5075,"The wife of one of the most respectable citizens a lawyer of eminence and a member of Congress was seized with a sudden and unaccountable illness, which completely baffled the skill of her physicians."
5076,"I wish you could see him; he is very tall of his age, with sweet laughing blue eyes, dark eyelashes, and curling hair."
5077,I go with the belief that I have your pardon.
5078,"The gruff voice said repeatedly 'sacré,' 'diable,' and once 'mon Dieu.' ""Jules Mignaud, banker, of the firm of Mignaud et Fils, Rue Deloraine."
5079,"He smiled at this odd conceit, but it seemed that his smile was tinged with reminiscence."
5080,"And as we sailed madly away from that damnable coast the bearded man spoke at last, saying: ""This is Xura, the Land of Pleasures Unattained."""
5081,"""He is, as you say, a remarkable horse a prodigious horse although, as you very justly observe, of a suspicious and untractable character, let him be mine, however,"" he added, after a pause, ""perhaps a rider like Frederick of Metzengerstein, may tame even the devil from the stables of Berlifitzing."""
5082,A mightier power than the human was at hand to destroy our plans or to achieve the work we avoided.
5083,"This contention is unworthy of both of us; and I confess that I am weary of replying to charges at once unfounded and unkind."""
5084,It was clear that the typical expression of these faces now suggested something it had not suggested before something which would bring stark panic if too openly thought of.
5085,"""My dear Victor,"" cried he, ""what, for God's sake, is the matter?"
5086,"It was unspeakably shocking, and I do not see how I lived through it."
5087,"This circumstance was not without effect on West, who thought often of the irony of the situation so many fresh specimens, yet none for his persecuted researches We were frightfully overworked, and the terrific mental and nervous strain made my friend brood morbidly."
5088,But no answer was there found.
5089,"Then suddenly I came by a rare piece of chance, since it was not in the main body of records and might easily have been missed upon something which aroused my keenest eagerness, fitting in as it did with several of the queerest phases of the affair."
5090,"Now if it were observed that never, in any single instance, did M. Maelzel differ from the routine we have pointed out as necessary to our solution, it would be one of the strongest possible arguments in corroboration of it but the argument becomes infinitely strengthened if we duly consider the circumstance that he does occasionally deviate from the routine but never does so deviate as to falsify the solution. ."
5091,"Why, that requires not this preparation; ye need not have come thus far and dragged your captain to the shame of a defeat merely to prove yourselves cowards."
5092,"The golden and silver fish haunted the river, out of the bosom of which issued, little by little, a murmur that swelled, at length, into a lulling melody more divine than that of the harp of Aeolus sweeter than all save the voice of Eleonora."
5093,And do not you fear the fierce vengeance of my arm wreaked on your miserable head?
5094,There is an hysterical laugh which will forever ring within my ears.
5095,"At certain stages of the ritual they did grovelling obeisance, especially when he held above his head that abhorrent Necronomicon he had taken with him; and I shared all the obeisances because I had been summoned to this festival by the writings of my forefathers."
5096,"And the power of self movement equivalent in effect to human volition is, in the unparticled matter, the result of its unity and omniprevalence; how I know not, and now clearly see that I shall never know."
5097,"""Oh, Madame Joyeuse was a fool"" she exclaimed, ""but there was really much sound sense, after all, in the opinion of Eugenie Salsafette."
5098,"In the dust and shadows of the great attic he found it, remote and forgotten at the back of a drawer in a tall chest."
5099,"How could he be sure he would not land on that green litten hillside of a far planet, on the tessellated terrace above the city of tentacled monsters somewhere beyond the galaxy, or in the spiral black vortices of that ultimate void of Chaos wherein reigns the mindless daemon sultan Azathoth?"
5100,"The houses of Sarnath were of glazed brick and chalcedony, each having its walled garden and crystal lakelet."
5101,"Children, unadepts in language, seldom find words to express their thoughts, nor could we tell in what manner the late events had impressed themselves on her mind."
5102,Even our soldiers were awed to silence; the music paused; the clang of arms was hushed.
5103,"""My dear Victor, do not speak thus."
5104,"On the contrary, he could by no means account for the overwhelming anxiety which appeared falling like a pall upon his senses."
5105,"And it was the high priest Gnai Kah who first saw the shadows that descended from the gibbous moon into the lake, and the damnable green mists that arose from the lake to meet the moon and to shroud in a sinister haze the towers and the domes of fated Sarnath."
5106,It is rather fortunate that Elwood was not in Arkham in that later year when certain events abruptly renewed the local whispers about elder horrors.
5107,He must have spoken of some peculiarity in this hair.
5108,"I had fallen into a trance while absent from home while among strangers when, or how, I could not remember and it was they who had buried me as a dog nailed up in some common coffin and thrust deep, deep, and for ever, into some ordinary and nameless grave."
5109,"Holding the instrument thus obtained within my teeth, I now proceeded to untie the knot of my cravat."
5110,"Klenze, though not my mental equal, was much better than no one."
5111,They were certainly independant for neither could the good spirit allow the existence of evil or the evil one the existence of good Tired of these doubts to which I could form no probable solution Sick of forming theories which I destroyed as quickly as I built them I was one evening on the top of Hymettus beholding the lovely prospect as the sun set in the glowing sea I looked towards Athens in my heart I exclaimed oh busy hive of men What heroism what meaness exists within thy walls And alas both to the good to the wicked what incalculable misery Freemen ye call yourselves yet every free man has ten slaves to build up his freedom and these slaves are men as they are yet degraded by their station to all that is mean loathsome Yet in how many hearts now beating in that city do high thoughts live magnanimity that should methinks redeem the whole human race What though the good man is unhappy has he not that in his heart to satisfy him?
5112,"It was Romero's voice, coming from the bunk above, that awakened me; a voice excited and tense with some vague expectation I could not understand: ""Madre de Dios el sonido ese sonido oiga Vd lo oye Vd? Señor, THAT SOUND"" I listened, wondering what sound he meant."
5113,"I accompanied the whale fishers on several expeditions to the North Sea; I voluntarily endured cold, famine, thirst, and want of sleep; I often worked harder than the common sailors during the day and devoted my nights to the study of mathematics, the theory of medicine, and those branches of physical science from which a naval adventurer might derive the greatest practical advantage."
5114,Alas what is the boasted intellect of man?
5115,"It was my antagonist it was Wilson, who then stood before me in the agonies of his dissolution."
5116,"""Father,"" I said, ""pardon me but I have a soul above lather."
5117,"Begone, or let us try our strength in a fight, in which one must fall."""
5118,"""We kept the smack in a cove about five miles higher up the coast than this; and it was our practice, in fine weather, to take advantage of the fifteen minutes' slack to push across the main channel of the Moskoe ström, far above the pool, and then drop down upon anchorage somewhere near Otterholm, or Sandflesen, where the eddies are not so violent as elsewhere."
5119,Who who knoweth the mysteries of the will with its vigor?
5120,"It's my business to catch the overtones of the soul, and you won't find those in a parvenu set of artificial streets on made land."
5121,"We entered the laboratory in the attic, and I observed that detestable electrical machine, glowing with a sickly, sinister, violet luminosity."
5122,"I escaped from them to the room where lay the body of Elizabeth, my love, my wife, so lately living, so dear, so worthy."
5123,"""I am now going to undertake an office fitted for me."
5124,"My friend leaving us immediately, we had quite a long tête à tête, and I was not only pleased but really instructed."
5125,"When they found themselves discovered they discharged their muskets, and some came to the front to cover the others, whose crews, exerting all their strength, endeavoured to escape with their light barks from among the dark hulls that environed them."
5126,He here confounds the pleasure derivable from sweet sounds with the capacity for creating them.
5127,"But she was humble and obedient, and sat meekly for many weeks in the dark, high turret chamber where the light dripped upon the pale canvas only from overhead."
5128,"It was open, and its contents lay beside it on the floor."
5129,"This generous approbation touched me to the heart the more especially as it emanated from a source so avowedly so proverbially pure as the ""Toad."""
5130,Carter recognised the characters as those he had seen on a certain papyrus scroll belonging to that terrible scholar of the South who had vanished one midnight in a nameless cemetery.
5131,The fate of the world seemed bound up in the death of this single man.
5132,"The secret I would make no difficulty in disclosing, but that it of right belongs to a citizen of Nantz, in France, by whom it was conditionally communicated to myself."
5133,"I turned from the awful ruin of the Golden City, and, after great exertion, succeeded in extricating myself from its enclosure."
5134,"It may have been only imagination and it may have been only echoes which induced one of the men, an excitable Spaniard, to fancy he heard antiphonal responses to the ritual from some far and unillumined spot deeper within the wood of ancient legendry and horror."
5135,"Once I sought out a celebrated ethnologist, and amused him with peculiar questions regarding the ancient Philistine legend of Dagon, the Fish God; but soon perceiving that he was hopelessly conventional, I did not press my inquiries."
5136,The other face may wear off some.
5137,"I know it I see it you hate me"" I was transported by violent emotion, and rising from his feet, at which I had thrown myself, I leant against a tree, wildly raising my eyes to heaven."
5138,"But I did not fail to perceive that these latter calculations are founded altogether on our experimental knowledge of the properties of air, and the mechanical laws regulating its dilation and compression, in what may be called, comparatively speaking, the immediate vicinity of the earth itself; and, at the same time, it is taken for granted that animal life is and must be essentially incapable of modification at any given unattainable distance from the surface."
5139,"She played a simple air, and her voice accompanied it in sweet accents, but unlike the wondrous strain of the stranger."
5140,"Do not be long away"" I assured her of my impatience to return, and then, with a small escort rode along the plain towards the tower of Marmora."
5141,"When he complained, and longed to escape into twilight realms where magic moulded all the little vivid fragments and prized associations of his mind into vistas of breathless expectancy and unquenchable delight, they turned him instead toward the new found prodigies of science, bidding him find wonder in the atom's vortex and mystery in the sky's dimensions."
5142,"These disasters came home to so many bosoms, and, through the various channels of commerce, were carried so entirely into every class and division of the community, that of necessity they became the first question in the state, the chief subjects to which we must turn our attention."
5143,We endeavoured to calm him but our own hearts were not calm.
5144,"Adrian had the superiority in learning and eloquence; but Raymond possessed a quick penetration, and a practical knowledge of life, which usually displayed itself in opposition to Adrian, and thus kept up the ball of discussion."
5145,"Now it was this latter peculiarity in his disposition, of which Kate's ingenuity enabled us one fine day, not long after our interview in the dining room, to take a very unexpected advantage, and, having thus, in the fashion of all modern bards and orators, exhausted in prolegomena, all the time at my command, and nearly all the room at my disposal, I will sum up in a few words what constitutes the whole pith of the story."
5146,His second principle was the love of woman.
5147,"It was foredoomed to failure for who could crouch blindly while a legion of croaking, baying entities of unknown source flopped noisomely past, scarcely more than a hundred yards away?"
5148,"Early in August the half expected outcome developed, and in the small hours of the d Dr. Armitage was awakened suddenly by the wild, fierce cries of the savage watchdog on the college campus."
5149,I threw my straining vision below.
5150,I need not go into details.
5151,"It was frightful beyond conception; toward the last, when a curious blend of servant and baby visages flickered close to the fungous floor where a pool of greenish grease was spreading, it seemed as though the shifting features fought against themselves, and strove to form contours like those of my uncle's kindly face."
5152,"""Nigh on a haour ago Zeb Whateley here heerd the 'phone a ringin', an' it was Mis' Corey, George's wife, that lives daown by the junction."
5153,She herself would disdain my interference.
5154,"From the many peopled earth, from the sympathies of man, from the loved resorts of my youth, from the kindness of my friends, from the affection of my only beloved Perdita, I am about to be removed."
5155,"I even went so far as to fear that, as I occasioned much trouble, they might be glad to consider any very protracted attack as sufficient excuse for getting rid of me altogether."
5156,"The Kanakys told 'em as haow folks from the other islands might wanta wipe 'em aout ef they got wind o' their bein' thar, but they says they dun't keer much, because they cud wipe aout the hull brood o' humans ef they was willin' to bother that is, any as didn't hev sarten signs sech as was used onct by the lost Old Ones, whoever they was."
5157,"It is evident that the hoop would now drop down within the car, while the whole weight of the car itself, with all its contents, would be held up merely by the strength of the buttons."
5158,The purchaser took me to his apartments and commenced operations immediately.
5159,The kind of banishment he now experienced arose from other causes.
5160,"On October , , the explorer Samuel Seaton called at Jermyn House with a manuscript of notes collected among the Ongas, believing that certain legends of a grey city of white apes ruled by a white god might prove valuable to the ethnologist."
5161,"They studied, they rode together; they were never seperate and seldom admitted a third to their society."
5162,"A heavy rain made this mode of travelling now incommodious; so we embarked in a steam packet, and after a short passage landed at Portsmouth."
5163,I say to my horror; for I was consumed with intolerable thirst.
5164,"In the lining of my sleeve were found all the court cards essential in ecarte, and, in the pockets of my wrapper, a number of packs, facsimiles of those used at our sittings, with the single exception that mine were of the species called, technically, arrondees; the honours being slightly convex at the ends, the lower cards slightly convex at the sides."
5165,"I don't believe there were three houses in sight that hadn't been standing in Cotton Mather's time certainly I glimpsed at least two with an overhang, and once I thought I saw a peaked roof line of the almost forgotten pre gambrel type, though antiquarians tell us there are none left in Boston."
5166,"In the compendium of the Essay, made use of in the Letters on Natural Magic, it is quite impossible to arrive at any distinct conclusion in regard to the adequacy or inadequacy of the analysis, on account of the gross misarrangement and deficiency of the letters of reference employed."
5167,"The Knight's Head had been his headquarters, and when he was confined he expressed some vague gratitude as if for protection."
5168,"From behind the huge bulk of one of those sharply defined masses of cloud already mentioned, was seen slowly to emerge into an open area of blue space, a queer, heterogeneous, but apparently solid substance, so oddly shaped, so whimsically put together, as not to be in any manner comprehended, and never to be sufficiently admired, by the host of sturdy burghers who stood open mouthed below."
5169,I gradually saw plainly the clear stream that supplied me with drink and the trees that shaded me with their foliage.
5170,"And the evening closed in upon me thus and then the darkness came, and tarried, and went and the day again dawned and the mists of a second night were now gathering around and still I sat motionless in that solitary room and still I sat buried in meditation and still the phantasma of the teeth maintained its terrible ascendancy, as, with the most vivid hideous distinctness, it floated about amid the changing lights and shadows of the chamber."
5171,"That he observed it in all its bearings, and as fixedly as I, was apparent; but that he could discover in such circumstances so fruitful a field of annoyance, can only be attributed, as I said before, to his more than ordinary penetration."
5172,"Remember, that I love her still, that my dearest hope is that she will again be mine."
5173,"Pausing only long enough to look at two fine but ruinous old churches at Main and Church Streets, I hastened out of that vile waterfront slum."
5174,I never spoke to him again.
5175,"He told of a wild cry disturbing the silence of the night of the gathering together of the household of a search in the direction of the sound; and then his tones grew thrillingly distinct as he whispered me of a violated grave of a disfigured body enshrouded, yet still breathing still palpitating still alive He pointed to garments; they were muddy and clotted with gore."
5176,"Earl Sawyer went out to the Whateley place with both sets of reporters and camera men, and called their attention to the queer stench which now seemed to trickle down from the sealed upper spaces."
5177,"There are times when we have an indefinable sentiment of impending change for better or for worse, to arise from an event; and, be it for better or for worse, we fear the change, and shun the event."
5178,Be sure they were grotesque.
5179,I rather think it was a ringing in my own ears.
5180,"My eyes are large and gray; and although, in fact they are weak a very inconvenient degree, still no defect in this regard would be suspected from their appearance."
5181,"We then went into the other rooms, and into the yard; a gendarme accompanying us throughout."
5182,"Seth he's gone aout naow to look at 'em, though I'll vaow he wun't keer ter git very nigh Wizard Whateley's Cha'ncey didn't look keerful ter see whar the big matted daown swath led arter it leff the pasturage, but he says he thinks it p'inted towards the glen rud to the village."
5183,I bounded like a madman through the crowded thoroughfares.
5184,But certainly she had made deep observations while she noted in silence the changes that passed around her.
5185,"It is quite certain that the operations of the Automaton are regulated by mind, and by nothing else."
5186,"This arrangement could be ascended with a minimum of awkwardness, and would furnish the desired height."
5187,I saw him on a sleepless night when I was walking desperately to save my soul and my vision.
5188,"He that came with the Aklo Sabaoth said I may be transfigured, there being much of outside to work on."""
5189,"That some hideous animal must be the cause, everyone quickly agreed; nor did any tongue now revive the charge that such cryptic deaths formed merely the sordid murders common in decadent communities."
5190,"Neither mania nor degeneracy was visible in that gaze, and I felt beyond a doubt that I was viewing a face behind which lay an active mind of high order."
5191,"Monsieur Voissart, very singularly, had married a lady of similar name a Mademoiselle Moissart."
5192,"It was difficult, at any given time, to say with certainty upon which of its two stories one happened to be."
5193,"""A thousand pounds,"" said I, sitting down."
5194,"A visit to Dunwich Village failed to bring out much that was new; but a close survey of the Necronomicon, in those parts which Wilbur had sought so avidly, seemed to supply new and terrible clues to the nature, methods, and desires of the strange evil so vaguely threatening this planet."
5195,The room had been square.
5196,"Marie, with Madame, replied to all questions, that the last week had been spent at the house of a relation in the country."
5197,"It was a very dark night, as the moon had not yet risen; they did not land at the harbour, but, as they had been accustomed, at a creek about two miles below."
5198,"We moved our hands, for example, when we were dwellers on the earth, and, in so doing, gave vibration to the atmosphere which engirdled it."
5199,"We seldom find so much of forethought in young men; and, more than once, some unhappy contre temps has occurred in consequence of thoughtlessness on the part of our visitors."
5200,The injustice of his sentence was very flagrant; all Paris was indignant; and it was judged that his religion and wealth rather than the crime alleged against him had been the cause of his condemnation.
5201,"'As five miles, then, to eight thousand,' would express the proportion of the earth's area seen by me."
5202,Annæus Stilpo half native in blood had sent to Balbutius at Calagurris for a cohort to stamp out the Sabbath on the terrible night.
5203,"For the court, guiding itself by the general principles of evidence the recognized and booked principles is averse from swerving at particular instances."
5204,I say signature; because its position upon the vellum suggested this idea.
5205,"Can the calm beams of their heaven seeking eyes equal the flashes of mingling passion which blind his, or does the influence of cold philosophy steep their soul in a joy equal to his, engaged In this dear work of youthful revelry."
5206,"An anxious examination of his career has given me to understand that in general, from the violation of a few simple laws of humanity arises the wretchedness of mankind that as a species we have in our possession the as yet unwrought elements of content and that, even now, in the present darkness and madness of all thought on the great question of the social condition, it is not impossible that man, the individual, under certain unusual and highly fortuitous conditions, may be happy."
5207,"""Why, my little Lady Protectress,"" said he, playfully, ""what is this you say?"
5208,"The wild eyes blazed with a too too glorious effulgence; the pale fingers became of the transparent waxen hue of the grave, and the blue veins upon the lofty forehead swelled and sank impetuously with the tides of the gentle emotion."
5209,"The Baron, besides, had no particular name for the animal, although all the rest in his collection were distinguished by characteristic appellations."
5210,"Although by our situation and dispositions we were almost equally cut off from the usual forms of social intercourse, we formed a strong contrast to each other."
5211,"Although I possessed the capacity of bestowing animation, yet to prepare a frame for the reception of it, with all its intricacies of fibres, muscles, and veins, still remained a work of inconceivable difficulty and labour."
5212,"Our seat on the tomb was very comfortable, and I knew that my prosaic friend would not mind the cavernous rift in the ancient, root disturbed brickwork close behind us, or the utter blackness of the spot brought by the intervention of a tottering, deserted seventeenth century house between us and the nearest lighted road."
5213,"When I asked the watchman what sounds he had heard prior to the mighty thunderbolt, he mentioned a coyote, a dog, and the snarling mountain wind nothing more."
5214,Why the third degree?
5215,"Party speeches were delivered, which clothed the question in cant, and veiled its simple meaning in a woven wind of words."
5216,"I saw at this juncture that Raymond changed colour; his eyes were withdrawn from the orator, and cast on the ground; the listeners turned from one to the other; but in the meantime the speaker's voice filled their ears the thunder of his denunciations influenced their senses."
5217,The usual grounds are a great way lower down to the southward.
5218,Were they so blind as not to perceive that the destruction of a myriad of individuals is only so much positive advantage to the mass April .
5219,"As the flames, when first seen, had already made so terrible a progress that all efforts to save any portion of the building were evidently futile, the astonished neighborhood stood idly around in silent and pathetic wonder."
5220,But this hideousness is insufferable.
5221,"My father was a Monsieur Froissart, of Paris."
5222,"The victims must have been sitting with their backs toward the window; and, from the time elapsing between the ingress of the beast and the screams, it seems probable that it was not immediately perceived."
5223,"Advancing, I peered over the edge of that chasm which no line could fathom, and which was now a pandemonium of flickering flame and hideous uproar."
5224,"Now, you dog, slip on my shoulders and bosom Pettitt makes the best shoulders, but for a bosom you will have to go to Ducrow."""
5225,"I confess, that I have not been unmoved by the development of the tale; and that I have been depressed, nay, agonized, at some parts of the recital, which I have faithfully transcribed from my materials."
5226,"He seems to have been very much averse to permitting the relatives to see the body."""
5227,"But where are the antennæ you spoke of?"" ""The antennæ"" said Legrand, who seemed to be getting unaccountably warm upon the subject; ""I am sure you must see the antennæ."
5228,"This latter direction I at once established by means of a pocket compass; then, pointing the glass as nearly at an angle of forty one degrees of elevation as I could do it by guess, I moved it cautiously up or down, until my attention was arrested by a circular rift or opening in the foliage of a large tree that overtopped its fellows in the distance."
5229,"Neither did his old physician Dr. Davis, who died years ago."
5230,"In scrutinizing this machinery while the Automaton was in motion, that is to say while the whole machine was moving on the castors, it appeared to us that certain portions of the mechanism changed their shape and position in a degree too great to be accounted for by the simple laws of perspective; and subsequent examinations convinced us that these undue alterations were attributable to mirrors in the interior of the trunk."
5231,"this indescribable something which men will persist in terming ""genius?"""
5232,"Then, in a knowing manner, I felt in both my breeches pockets, and, missing therefrom a set of tablets and a toothpick case, endeavored to account for their disappearance, and not being able to do so, felt inexpressibly chagrined."
5233,"Idleness had ever been irksome to me, and now that I wished to fly from reflection, and hated my former studies, I felt great relief in being the fellow pupil with my friend, and found not only instruction but consolation in the works of the orientalists."
5234,"Alfred, now nine years old, was an upright, manly little fellow, with radiant brow, soft eyes, and gentle, though independent disposition."
5235,"That, on the other hand, the successful administration of a province depended primarily upon the safety and good will of the civilised element in whose hands the local machinery of commerce and prosperity reposed, and in whose veins a large mixture of our own Italian blood coursed."
5236,"I've heard personally of more'n one business or government man that's disappeared there, and there's loose talk of one who went crazy and is out at Danvers now."
5237,"The first thing to do is to get rid of the old bore."""
5238,Why am I obliged to live?
5239,"For I, and I only, know what manner of fear lurked on that spectral and desolate mountain."
5240,I was hurried away by fury; revenge alone endowed me with strength and composure; it moulded my feelings and allowed me to be calculating and calm at periods when otherwise delirium or death would have been my portion.
5241,"The air grew perceptibly colder, more suddenly so than is usual at November's brink, and seemed stirred by terrible undulations which I could not help connecting with the beating of huge wings."
5242,"Come, as you have played Despair with me I will play the part of Una with you and bring you hurtless from his dark cavern."
5243,"But what actually absorbed our minds was the secret laboratory we had fitted up in the cellar the laboratory with the long table under the electric lights, where in the small hours of the morning we often injected West's various solutions into the veins of the things we dragged from the potter's field."
5244,"My departure was therefore fixed at an early date, but before the day resolved upon could arrive, the first misfortune of my life occurred an omen, as it were, of my future misery."
5245,"After slight reflection I gave a willing assent to this bold proposition, which strange to say met with objection from the two seamen only."
5246,On the fourth morning all vanished.
5247,"To prevent his following the example of his companion, and accomplishing a return, I threw him downward with all my force, and was pleased to find him continue his descent, with great velocity, making use of his wings with ease, and in a perfectly natural manner."
5248,"In this examination, I committed to memory its external appearance and arrangement in the rack; and also fell, at length, upon a discovery which set at rest whatever trivial doubt I might have entertained."
5249,"My host was now leading the way down cellar to his actual studio, and I braced myself for some hellish effects among the unfinished canvases."
5250,"His vest was of some bright yellow material; a white taffety cap was set jauntily on one side of his head; and, to complete his equipment, a blood red silk handkerchief enveloped his throat, and fell down, in a dainty manner, upon his bosom, in a fantastic bow knot of super eminent dimensions."
5251,I was singularly at ease.
5252,"Now, noses protected by handkerchiefs, we tremblingly invaded the accursed south room which blazed with the warm sun of early afternoon."
5253,"It was tall in front, and with a very large and curiously irregular periphery, as if designed for a head of almost freakishly elliptical outline."
5254,"That is the new Temple of the Sun, who is adored in Syria under the title of Elah Gabalah."
5255,"From the dim regions beyond the mountains at the upper end of our encircled domain, there crept out a narrow and deep river, brighter than all save the eyes of Eleonora; and, winding stealthily about in mazy courses, it passed away, at length, through a shadowy gorge, among hills still dimmer than those whence it had issued."
5256,"We had no room, of course, for any thing except a few positively necessary instruments, some provisions, and the clothes upon our backs."
5257,"I was from a thousand motives induced to attend minutely to the course of events, and watch each turn with intense anxiety."
5258,"A line dropped from an elevation of , feet, perpendicularly to the surface of the earth or sea, would form the perpendicular of a right angled triangle, of which the base would extend from the right angle to the horizon, and the hypothenuse from the horizon to the balloon."
5259,"But the principium indivduationis, the notion of that identity which at death is or is not lost for ever, was to me, at all times, a consideration of intense interest; not more from the perplexing and exciting nature of its consequences, than from the marked and agitated manner in which Morella mentioned them."
5260,"I said ""disappointed,"" but this is not altogether the word."
5261,"And, anon, there strikes the ebony clock which stands in the hall of the velvet."
5262,"And, indeed, the character of the Syrian monarch does by no means stand in need of any adventitious embellishment."
5263,This is just; as also is the reference to the sense of human interest.
5264,"My attention was next arrested by these paragraphs in the ""Toad"" a print highly distinguished for its uprightness, and independence for its entire freedom from sycophancy and subservience to the givers of dinners: ""The 'Lollipop' for October is out in advance of all its contemporaries, and infinitely surpasses them, of course, in the splendor of its embellishments, as well as in the richness of its literary contents."
5265,"Half frightened, I would have taken her hand; but she shudderingly withdrew it, and strove to collect herself."
5266,I could not help believing that the green sods and the gray rocks upon which I trod had been trodden never before by the foot of a human being.
5267,"But assuredly if we had been brothers we must have been twins; for, after leaving Dr. Bransby's, I casually learned that my namesake was born on the nineteenth of January, and this is a somewhat remarkable coincidence; for the day is precisely that of my own nativity."
5268,His blind and aged father and his gentle sister lay in a noisome dungeon while he enjoyed the free air and the society of her whom he loved.
5269,I found that the wind was northeast and must have driven me far from the coast from which I had embarked.
5270,"I began to speak to Tillinghast, and as I did so all the unusual impressions abruptly vanished."
5271,"She saw my despondency, and the aching cares of Idris."
5272,"I arrived here yesterday, and my first task is to assure my dear sister of my welfare and increasing confidence in the success of my undertaking."
5273,"As the former proceeded in his discourse, or rather monologue I perceived the excitement of the latter momently increasing."
5274,"With the best intentions in the world, I never knew any thing that made as many singular mistakes as the ""Goosetherumfoodle."""
5275,"Could it be proved that the editor of L'Etoile really entertained a doubt, under the circumstances, there would be no need, in his case, of a commission de lunatico inquirendo."
5276,"In an excursion to the Ragged Mountains, a few days since, a slight cold and fever were contracted, attended with great determination of blood to the head."
5277,"Then, with lids humid with a tear and trembling voice, she continued ""Dear friends, do not think it strange that now, visiting you for the first time, I ask your assistance, and confide my wishes and fears to you."
5278,"These contemplations engaged her, when the voice of Raymond first struck her ear, a voice, once heard, never to be forgotten; she mastered her gush of feelings, and welcomed him with quiet gentleness."
5279,"I endeavored to believe that much, if not all of what I felt, was due to the bewildering influence of the gloomy furniture of the room of the dark and tattered draperies, which, tortured into motion by the breath of a rising tempest, swayed fitfully to and fro upon the walls, and rustled uneasily about the decorations of the bed."
5280,"Instances of desertion became more frequent; and even murders, which made the hearer sick with horror, where the fear of contagion had armed those nearest in blood against each other."
5281,Recourse was had to figures; and figures but sufficed to confound.
5282,I even now blush at the falsehoods I uttered; my heart sickens: I will leave this complication of what I hope I may in a manner call innocent deceit to be imagined by the reader.
5283,"However, he never openly fell out with the Doctor, and was the Executor of his Will; tho' Mr. Boswell and others have Reason to question the genuineness of his Attachment."
5284,"At length there seemed to pass a violent and sudden shock through my soul, as if of electricity."
5285,"It likewise became clear that, since the same solution never worked alike on different organic species, he would require human subjects for further and more specialised progress."
5286,"The lounger I had hired, it seems, had fled screaming and mad eyed not long after his second delivery of ice; perhaps as a result of excessive curiosity."
5287,"Against the crowd which environed me, however, I experienced a deep sentiment of animosity."
5288,"It was not allied to the European witch cult, and was virtually unknown beyond its members."
5289,"Instead, the first thing which caught my eye was a small rowboat pulling in toward the abandoned wharves and laden with some bulky, tarpaulin covered object."
5290,"Then, as the flash subsided, I saw that my host was trembling too; a look of shocking fear half blotting from his face the serpent distortion of rage which my screams had excited."
5291,I carefully traced the windings of the land and hailed a steeple which I at length saw issuing from behind a small promontory.
5292,"It seemed clear to us all that to awaken M. Valdemar would be merely to insure his instant, or at least his speedy dissolution."
5293,More than once the agitation into which these reflections threw me made my friends dread a dangerous relapse.
5294,"""Indeed I dare not die."
5295,"For though the wind had not left much snow, a few patches did remain on the path near the door; and in that fleeting backward look it seemed to my troubled eyes that they bore no mark of passing feet, not even mine."
5296,"For seven or eight days we saw no material increase in its apparent diameter, and but a partial alteration in its color."
5297,"The main event detailed in the Signor's narrative depends upon a very important fact, of which the reader is kept in ignorance until near the end of the book."
5298,"""Tell me, for Heaven's sake,"" I exclaimed, ""the method if method there is by which you have been enabled to fathom my soul in this matter."""
5299,"The sensation is most dreary, to use no stronger term, with which one looks forward to passing the long hours of night beside a sick bed, especially if the patient be an infant, who cannot explain its pain, and whose flickering life resembles the wasting flame of the watch light, Whose narrow fire Is shaken by the wind, and on whose edge Devouring darkness hovers."
5300,"On the birth of a second son, my junior by seven years, my parents gave up entirely their wandering life and fixed themselves in their native country."
5301,"""Out to the end"" here fairly screamed Legrand, ""do you say you are out to the end of that limb?"" ""Soon be to de eend, massa, o o o o oh Lor gol a marcy what is dis here pon de tree?"" ""Well"" cried Legrand, highly delighted, ""what is it?"""
5302,Alas why must I record the hapless delusion of this matchless specimen of humanity?
5303,"Had the sleep waker, indeed, during the latter portion of his discourse, been addressing me from out the region of the shadows?"
5304,"A terrace, with an old moss covered balustrade, calls up at once to the eye the fair forms that have passed there in other days."
5305,"You are younger; yet I do not suppose, possessed as you are of a competent fortune, that an early marriage would at all interfere with any future plans of honour and utility that you may have formed."
5306,Those without the telescope saw only an instant's flash of grey cloud a cloud about the size of a moderately large building near the top of the mountain.
5307,"""And, all at once, the moon arose through the thin ghastly mist, and was crimson in color."
5308,So the boy whom the dark people called Menes smiled more often than he wept as he sate playing with his graceful kitten on the steps of an oddly painted wagon.
5309,What was taking place in me?
5310,"Therein, I say, are glorious histories of the Heaven, and of the Earth, and of the mighty sea and of the Genii that over ruled the sea, and the earth, and the lofty heaven."
5311,"But even Stamboul, it is said, shall have an end, and there came an end to this long delay."
5312,"Of our studies it is impossible to speak, since they held so slight a connexion with anything of the world as living men conceive it."
5313,"If there is on earth a supreme and unqualified despotism, it is the despotism of a master mind in boyhood over the less energetic spirits of its companions."
5314,My other pursuers had been accursedly abnormal so should I not have been ready to face a strengthening of the abnormal element; to look upon forms in which there was no mixture of the normal at all?
5315,"One went over us this morning about sunrise, and so nearly overhead that its drag rope actually brushed the network suspending our car, and caused us very serious apprehension."
5316,"This latter point I determined to attend to at regular intervals of forty minutes, more on account of the preservation of my health, than from so frequent a renovation being absolutely necessary."
5317,"When I am gone, you will console your mother, and tell her that death was only bitter because it divided me from her; that my last thoughts will be spent on her."
5318,"Some years ago, when the images which this world affords first opened upon me, when I felt the cheering warmth of summer and heard the rustling of the leaves and the warbling of the birds, and these were all to me, I should have wept to die; now it is my only consolation."
5319,The families of Berlifitzing and Metzengerstein had been at variance for centuries.
5320,The cuttings largely alluded to outré mental illnesses and outbreaks of group folly or mania in the spring of .
5321,"The story is that there's a whole legion of devils seen sometimes on that reef sprawled about, or darting in and out of some kind of caves near the top."
5322,"It was this frightful emotional need which led us eventually to that detestable course which even in my present fear I mention with shame and timidity that hideous extremity of human outrage, the abhorred practice of grave robbing."
5323,"The streets were profoundly quiet, as it was nearly three o'clock in the morning."
5324,"In a few moments I saw him in his boat, which shot across the waters with an arrowy swiftness and was soon lost amidst the waves."
5325,"The boat glides between them, and commences a rapid descent into a vast amphitheatre entirely begirt with purple mountains, whose bases are laved by a gleaming river throughout the full extent of their circuit."
5326,"All went on cheerfully now; we met as usual, and talked without dread of our future plans."
5327,"The jog trot movement, to my thinking, is little less than positive torture."
5328,You will have a distinct idea of the ultimate body by conceiving it to be entire brain.
5329,"During the first year of their marriage, Perdita presented Raymond with a lovely girl."
5330,"West, in the midst of a severe battle, had reanimated Major Sir Eric Moreland Clapham Lee, D.S.O., a fellow physician who knew about his experiments and could have duplicated them."
5331,"What, therefore, must have been my amazement, on awakening from a brief and disturbed slumber, on the morning of this day, the seventeenth, at finding the surface beneath me so suddenly and wonderfully augmented in volume, as to subtend no less than thirty nine degrees in apparent angular diameter I was thunderstruck No words can give any adequate idea of the extreme, the absolute horror and astonishment, with which I was seized possessed, and altogether overwhelmed."
5332,"It was this my chin rested upon the floor of the prison, but my lips and the upper portion of my head, although seemingly at a less elevation than the chin, touched nothing."
5333,"In the investigations at the house of Madame L'Espanaye, the agents of G were discouraged and confounded by that very unusualness which, to a properly regulated intellect, would have afforded the surest omen of success; while this same intellect might have been plunged in despair at the ordinary character of all that met the eye in the case of the perfumery girl, and yet told of nothing but easy triumph to the functionaries of the Prefecture."
5334,"He became a dreamer who found life tame and unsatisfying; a searcher for strange realms and relationships once familiar, yet lying nowhere in the visible regions of earth."
5335,"This also was my doing And my father's woe, and the desolation of that late so smiling home all was the work of my thrice accursed hands Ye weep, unhappy ones, but these are not your last tears Again shall you raise the funeral wail, and the sound of your lamentations shall again and again be heard Frankenstein, your son, your kinsman, your early, much loved friend; he who would spend each vital drop of blood for your sakes, who has no thought nor sense of joy except as it is mirrored also in your dear countenances, who would fill the air with blessings and spend his life in serving you he bids you weep, to shed countless tears; happy beyond his hopes, if thus inexorable fate be satisfied, and if the destruction pause before the peace of the grave have succeeded to your sad torments Thus spoke my prophetic soul, as, torn by remorse, horror, and despair, I beheld those I loved spend vain sorrow upon the graves of William and Justine, the first hapless victims to my unhallowed arts."
5336,"The trial began, and after the advocate against her had stated the charge, several witnesses were called."
5337,"As might be supposed from the origin of his disorder, he grew infected with system, and with abstraction."
5338,"He was, in all his gradations of morbidity between the frankly non human and the degradedly human, establishing a sardonic linkage and evolution."
5339,"Suspended by blue ribbons to the end of this fantastic machine, there hung, by way of car, an enormous drab beaver hat, with a brim superlatively broad, and a hemispherical crown with a black band and a silver buckle."
5340,That he should be restless I understood; that he should wander as an unlaid ghost and find no quiet from the burning hell that consumed his heart.
5341,But for one thing Old Bugs would have been an ideal slave to the establishment and that one thing was his conduct when young men were introduced for their first drink.
5342,Suddenly I found myself wondering what the voices of those denizens would be like.
5343,"Something fearsome and incredible had happened at Sefton Asylum fifty miles away, stunning the neighbourhood and baffling the police."
5344,"A small room in the front of the house, on the fourth story, at the head of the passage was open, the door being ajar."
5345,"""We are used to these things, and care really very little about them."
5346,To escape these evils was the aim and scope of all our exertions.
5347,"I have much to say of the climate of the planet; of its wonderful alternations of heat and cold, of unmitigated and burning sunshine for one fortnight, and more than polar frigidity for the next; of a constant transfer of moisture, by distillation like that in vacuo, from the point beneath the sun to the point the farthest from it; of a variable zone of running water, of the people themselves; of their manners, customs, and political institutions; of their peculiar physical construction; of their ugliness; of their want of ears, those useless appendages in an atmosphere so peculiarly modified; of their consequent ignorance of the use and properties of speech; of their substitute for speech in a singular method of inter communication; of the incomprehensible connection between each particular individual in the moon with some particular individual on the earth a connection analogous with, and depending upon, that of the orbs of the planet and the satellites, and by means of which the lives and destinies of the inhabitants of the one are interwoven with the lives and destinies of the inhabitants of the other; and above all, if it so please your Excellencies above all, of those dark and hideous mysteries which lie in the outer regions of the moon regions which, owing to the almost miraculous accordance of the satellite's rotation on its own axis with its sidereal revolution about the earth, have never yet been turned, and, by God's mercy, never shall be turned, to the scrutiny of the telescopes of man."
5348,The mass of the people regard as profound only him who suggests pungent contradictions of the general idea.
5349,The political state of England became agitated as the time drew near when the new Protector was to be elected.
5350,I dared not think that the sun should shine and the moon rise not on your living form but on your grave.
5351,"Now he was no less a fanatic, but his desire to speak had conquered his resentment, and he had written me imperatively in a hand I could scarcely recognise."
5352,"The baying was loud that evening, and in the morning I read of a nameless deed in the vilest quarter of the city."
5353,The measured movement of the pendulum disturbed them not at all.
5354,"Green are the groves and pastures, bright and fragrant the flowers, blue and musical the streams, clear and cool the fountains, and stately and gorgeous the temples, castles, and cities of Sona Nyl."
5355,"Dr. West had been avid for a chance to serve as surgeon in a great war, and when the chance had come he carried me with him almost against my will."
5356,"With joy the sculptors hailed the Tyrant's offer, so that in the days that followed their slaves heard the ceaseless blows of chisels."
5357,"As I entered the chamber, I looked about, of course, for the occupant, but did not immediately perceive him."
5358,"Whatever those might be which descended to me, my noble young friend resolved should not be lost for want of culture."
5359,This request must I confess it?
5360,But I was then convinced that young Wilcox had known of the older matters mentioned by the professor.
5361,"Soon those shrieks had attained a magnitude and quality which cannot be written of, and which make me faint as I think of them."
5362,"In this dilemma, Captain Hardy arranged that the corpse, being first partially embalmed, and packed, with a large quantity of salt, in a box of suitable dimensions, should be conveyed on board as merchandise."
5363,You promised to facilitate my visit to Adrian; I conjure you to perform your promise.
5364,"Mr. Henson's scheme which at first was considered very feasible even by men of science, was founded upon the principle of an inclined plane, started from an eminence by an extrinsic force, applied and continued by the revolution of impinging vanes, in form and number resembling the vanes of a windmill."
5365,"Fancying now that I had attained the very pinnacle of the castle, I commenced to rush up the few steps beyond the door; but the sudden veiling of the moon by a cloud caused me to stumble, and I felt my way more slowly in the dark."
5366,"I don't believe it immortal renown and all that prodigies of valor Never heard why, bless me, he's the man"" ""Mann?"
5367,"Advancing to one of these I looked in and saw an oddly dressed company, indeed; making merry, and speaking brightly to one another."
5368,"Still nothing occurred to reward my watching; and I yawned repeatedly, fatigue getting the better of apprehension."
5369,FROM his cradle to his grave a gale of prosperity bore my friend Ellison along.
5370,"When I observed this last, plain evidence of my friend's aberration of mind, I could scarcely refrain from tears."
5371,"Time could not exist in certain belts of space, and by entering and remaining in such a belt one might preserve one's life and age indefinitely; never suffering organic metabolism or deterioration except for slight amounts incurred during visits to one's own or similar planes."
5372,"Hence the impression of concavity; and this impression must remain, until the elevation shall bear so great a proportion to the extent of prospect, that the apparent parallelism of the base and hypothenuse disappears when the earth's real convexity must become apparent."
5373,"Here again is a very clever diddle, of which the simplicity is not its least recommendation."
5374,"But I enjoyed friends, dear not only through habit and association, but from their own merits; and wherever I am, the soothing voice of my Elizabeth and the conversation of Clerval will be ever whispered in my ear."
5375,The origin of this hubbub soon became sufficiently evident.
5376,V. Yes no I would rather sleep more soundly.
5377,I was alone; none were near me to dissipate the gloom and relieve me from the sickening oppression of the most terrible reveries.
5378,My parents I never knew.
5379,"O quickly bind up the wounds of the fallen let not one die; let not one more soul escape through your merciless gashes, to relate before the throne of God the tale of fratricide; bind up their wounds restore them to their friends."
5380,Pompey held it up out of the dirt with both hands.
5381,"In the same spirit of exaggeration she had, on the event of her separation from Raymond, caused it to be entirely neglected."
5382,A shriek burst from the lips of the poor wretch; and then sudden motionlessness came over him; it was manifest to all that he was dead.
5383,For some moments all were paralyzed with awe but the urgency of the case soon restored them their presence of mind.
5384,"Those who would hesitate at such a wager, have either never been boys themselves, or have forgotten the boyish nature."
5385,"Both doors leading from the rooms into the passage were securely locked, with the keys inside."
5386,"The phrenological combativeness has for its essence, the necessity of self defence."
5387,We were all lions and recherchés.
5388,It must not be fancied that Inspector Legrasse had the least interest in archaeology.
5389,"You must forget too, my earthly name, and speak to me as Charmion."
5390,"The manner in which Wyatt received this harmless pleasantry convinced me, at once, that he was mad."
5391,"She felt, that, once awakened, Raymond would never return unrepining to Windsor."
5392,During the interval that Tillinghast was silent I fancied myself in some vast and incredible temple of long dead gods; some vague edifice of innumerable black stone columns reaching up from a floor of damp slabs to a cloudy height beyond the range of my vision.
5393,"For a time, I thought that, by watching a complying moment, fostering the still warm ashes, I might relume in her the flame of love."
5394,"The darkness always teemed with unexplained sound and yet he sometimes shook with fear lest the noises he heard should subside and allow him to hear certain other, fainter, noises which he suspected were lurking behind them."
5395,"She and her brother were not so much interested in the house as was Archer's son Carrington, the present owner, with whom I talked after my experience."
5396,"And the gates of Sarnath were as many as the landward ends of the streets, each of bronze, and flanked by the figures of lions and elephants carven from some stone no longer known among men."
5397,"I did not dare return to the apartment which I inhabited, but felt impelled to hurry on, although drenched by the rain which poured from a black and comfortless sky."
5398,"Besides, the monarch is of gigantic stature, and the dress is therefore neither unbecoming nor over large."
5399,"Never was she so enchanting as at this time, when she recalled the sunshine of her smiles and spent them upon us."
5400,He entered while we were speaking.
5401,"His appearance re animated our friend; and, when he came to speak and act, his hesitation vanished, and he shone out supreme in majesty and victory."
5402,"With my head I imagined, at one time, that I, the head, was the real Signora Psyche Zenobia at another I felt convinced that myself, the body, was the proper identity."
5403,It was curious to trace in this miniature model the very traits of its father.
5404,Was one of the party who entered the house.
5405,There appeared to be no furniture in any part of the building except in the fourth story.
5406,As we clanked over the bridge I looked out on both sides and observed some factory buildings on the edge of the grassy bluff or part way down.
5407,Thus it happened that he became neither musician nor poet; if we use this latter term in its every day acceptation.
5408,"Oh my pen haste thou to write what was, before the thought of what is, arrests the hand that guides thee."
5409,"It was very dark, for although the sky was clear the moon was now well in the wane, and would not rise till the small hours."
5410,"I am aware that some grinders have actually afforded to ""go on"" for this sum; but for my part, I found the necessary outlay of capital too great to permit of my ""going on"" under a shilling."
5411,"For many months he had been laboring under confirmed phthisis, the more distressing effects of which had been relieved by my manipulations; and on the night of Wednesday, the fifteenth instant, I was summoned to his bedside."
5412,"Elwood wrote his part of the colloquy on paper, so that a fairly easy communication was maintained."
5413,"Notwithstanding the melancholy object of my journey, my spirits were exhilarated by reviving hope, by the swift motion of the airy pinnace, and the balmy visitation of the sunny air."
5414,"He grins when his daily work is done when his allotted labors are accomplished at night in his own closet, and altogether for his own private entertainment."
5415,"Leaving open the main compartment, the drawer, and the front door of cupboard No. I, he now goes to the rear again, and throws open the back door of the main compartment."
5416,"There seems to me an insurmountable objection to the idea of absolute coalescence; and that is the very slight resistance experienced by the heavenly bodies in their revolutions through space a resistance now ascertained, it is true, to exist in some degree, but which is, nevertheless, so slight as to have been quite overlooked by the sagacity even of Newton."
5417,"But, by the God that made me, hell is not more false than the word you have spoken"" Perdita was struck by the impassioned seriousness of his asseverations."
5418,"The bus had come to a sort of open concourse or radial point with churches on two sides and the bedraggled remains of a circular green in the centre, and I was looking at a large pillared hall on the right hand junction ahead."
5419,"I did not remain very long on the brow of the hill, although long enough to make a thorough survey of the scene at my feet."
5420,"Gilman was half involuntarily moving about in the twilight abysses with the bubble mass and the small polyhedron floating ahead, when he noticed the peculiarly regular angles formed by the edges of some gigantic neighbouring prism clusters."
5421,"""In your detail of the vision which presented itself to you amid the hills, you have described, with the minutest accuracy, the Indian city of Benares, upon the Holy River."
5422,Here the case was very different; as might have been expected from the duke's love of the bizarre.
5423,"Interpret my words with candour and answer me, I conjure you, with confidence and sincerity."""
5424,"""Is it quite original?"" he inquired; touching it with reverence."
5425,"What to make of all this, of course I knew not."
5426,"He has merely repeated the individual items of the already published opinion; collecting them, with a laudable industry, from this paper and from that."
5427,"Over against her, and upon the left of the dropsical lady, was seated a little puffy, wheezing, and gouty old man, whose cheeks reposed upon the shoulders of their owner, like two huge bladders of Oporto wine."
5428,"""So it is sometimes termed,"" said he. ""We Norwegians call it the Moskoe ström, from the island of Moskoe in the midway."""
5429,"Having finished reading, he begged me, with the blandest of all possible smiles, to be seated, while he made reference to the treatise in question."
5430,It seemed to me that there were limitless swarms of them and certainly my momentary glimpse could have shewn only the least fraction.
5431,Love is a delicate sprite and easily hurt by rough jealousy.
5432,It is our safeguard against injury.
5433,"Resolved to pursue no inglorious career, he turned his eyes toward the East, as affording scope for his spirit of enterprise."
5434,Raymond recognized her; and his manner changed from polite beneficence to the warmest protestations of kindness and sympathy.
5435,Who can be sure of reality after hearing things like the tale of old Zadok Allen?
5436,"The high born ladies of the country would have deemed themselves disgraced if they had now enjoyed, what they before called a necessary, the ease of a carriage."
5437,It was curious that even little Clara observed this law towards her mother.
5438,"Thus in her twenty ninth year she died; having enjoyed some few years of the happiness of paradise, and sustaining a reverse to which her impatient spirit and affectionate disposition were unable to submit."
5439,"AFTER THE very minute and elaborate paper by Arago, to say nothing of the summary in 'Silliman's Journal,' with the detailed statement just published by Lieutenant Maury, it will not be supposed, of course, that in offering a few hurried remarks in reference to Von Kempelen's discovery, I have any design to look at the subject in a scientific point of view."
5440,"There were sharp pains, and sudden dizziness, and then profuse bleeding at the pores, with dissolution."
5441,"There were, it is true, exceptions; indeed, the horror which had caught the world's ear had happened in a treeless space remote alike from the mansion and from any connecting woods."
5442,"Jupiter and myself are going upon an expedition into the hills, upon the main land, and, in this expedition we shall need the aid of some person in whom we can confide."
5443,"Remember, thou hast made me more powerful than thyself; my height is superior to thine, my joints more supple."
5444,"A letter may be compressed into a thin spiral roll, not differing much in shape or bulk from a large knitting needle, and in this form it might be inserted into the rung of a chair, for example."
5445,"He was in the changeless, legend haunted city of Arkham, with its clustering gambrel roofs that sway and sag over attics where witches hid from the King's men in the dark, olden days of the Province."
5446,Nor do I doubt his word.
5447,"I did not participate in these feelings, for to me the walls of a dungeon or a palace were alike hateful."
5448,"But foremost among the weird fancies, and alone in its absolute unanimity, was that of the curse awaiting him who should dare to touch or drain the vast reddish morass."
5449,"Sometimes, seized with sudden agony, he could not continue his tale; at others, his voice broken, yet piercing, uttered with difficulty the words so replete with anguish."
5450,"In fact, I was just in that condition of mind which prepares a young and susceptible man for any act of extravagance."
5451,"Having threaded the mazes of this channel for some hours, the gloom deepening every moment, a sharp and unexpected turn of the vessel brought it suddenly, as if dropped from heaven, into a circular basin of very considerable extent when compared with the width of the gorge."
5452,"Enjoyment plays the cook to their homely fare, and mingles intoxication with their simple drink."
5453,"Clara was dear to her, to all."
5454,Death was indeed there.
5455,I thought the staircase would never have an end.
5456,"I had heard, at Paris, that the institution of Monsieur Maillard was managed upon what is vulgarly termed the ""system of soothing"" that all punishments were avoided that even confinement was seldom resorted to that the patients, while secretly watched, were left much apparent liberty, and that most of them were permitted to roam about the house and grounds in the ordinary apparel of persons in right mind."
5457,The mutual link of our destinies is broken; we must be divided by seas by land.
5458,"Let me try if he will die with me; and as I fear to die alone, if he will accompany me to cheer me, and thus he can shew himself my friend in the only manner my misery will permit."
5459,"Finding the door open, I entered."
5460,"They are they are This wild star it is now three centuries since, with clasped hands, and with streaming eyes, at the feet of my beloved I spoke it with a few passionate sentences into birth."
5461,"Simple animals they were, gently descending the evolutionary scale because of their unfortunate ancestry and stultifying isolation."
5462,"Then weeping, she clung to me: ""Take me to him,"" she cried, ""unkind Lionel, why do you keep me here?"
5463,"In the waning light of day I alternately rattled the rusty impediments with a view to throwing wide the stone door, and essayed to squeeze my slight form through the space already provided; but neither plan met with success."
5464,"After a few experiments, they admitted him to be an unusually perfect state of mesmeric trance."
5465,"The arts of life, and the discoveries of science had augmented in a ratio which left all calculation behind; food sprung up, so to say, spontaneously machines existed to supply with facility every want of the population."
5466,"Finally, throwing off his overcoat, he made one spring for the staircase and disappeared."
5467,Your geniuses are all arrant asses the greater the genius the greater the ass and to this rule there is no exception whatever.
5468,Below this picture was a miniature of William; and my tears flowed when I looked upon it.
5469,"In a word, nothing could more seriously disturb me, although I scrupulously concealed such disturbance, than any allusion to a similarity of mind, person, or condition existing between us."
5470,"A settled apathy, a gradual wasting away of the person, and frequent although transient affections of a partially cataleptical character, were the unusual diagnosis."
5471,"He was, however, exceedingly ugly despite his appearance of brilliancy; there being something almost goatish or animalistic about his thick lips, large pored, yellowish skin, coarse crinkly hair, and oddly elongated ears."
5472,"As I spoke I fixed my eyes upon his countenance, and his exquisite beauty, the heavenly compassion that beamed from his eyes, his gentle yet earnest look of deprecation and wonder even before he spoke wrought a change in my high strained feelings taking from me all the sterness of despair and filling me only with the softest grief."
5473,"Their landing was long unknown, but having now advanced within an hundred miles of London, the country people flying before them arrived in successive troops, each exaggerating the numbers, fury, and cruelty of the assailants."
5474,"In the face of all this we call ourselves lords of the creation, wielders of the elements, masters of life and death, and we allege in excuse of this arrogance, that though the individual is destroyed, man continues for ever."
5475,"My curiosity was greatly excited, for I had hopes of passing on much farther to the north, and might possibly, at some period, find myself placed directly above the Pole itself."
5476,"Still and somnolent did it lie, on a strange plateau in a hollow betwixt strange peaks."
5477,"The reduction of this interval to its smallest possible dimension, becomes thus, at once, an object with the reasoner."
5478,"At length, after making several guesses of this nature, and being deceived in all this fact the fact of my invariable miscalculation set me upon a train of reflection that made my limbs again tremble, and my heart beat heavily once more."
5479,"They were the dissimilar Martense eyes of the old legends, and I knew in one inundating cataclysm of voiceless horror what had become of that vanished family; the terrible and thunder crazed house of Martense."
5480,"Presently our little boat gave herself a shake, just as a dog does in coming out of the water, and thus rid herself, in some measure, of the seas."
5481,"There was neither too much flesh, nor too little, neither rudeness nor fragility."
5482,"If ever mortal painted an idea, that mortal was Roderick Usher."
5483,"Age has more charity for these incomplete yet high souled characters, whose worst real vice is timidity, and who are ultimately punished by general ridicule for their intellectual sins sins like Ptolemaism, Calvinism, anti Darwinism, anti Nietzscheism, and every sort of Sabbatarianism and sumptuary legislation."
5484,"He nevair go out, only on roof, and my boy Esteban he breeng heem hees food and laundry and mediceens and chemicals."
5485,"There is one dear topic, however, on which my memory fails me not."
5486,"You may take, it for granted, that when manuscript can be read it is never worth reading."
5487,"With his fanciful mind he thought often of the prehistoric civilisation in which the mad explorer had so implicitly believed, and would weave tale after tale about the silent jungle city mentioned in the latter's wilder notes and paragraphs."
5488,I appeal to moralists and sages.
5489,"I perceived, as the shape came nearer sight tremendous and abhorred that it was the wretch whom I had created."
5490,"Such is, to borrow the words of an eloquent and philosophic writer, ""the mode of existence decreed to a permanent body composed of transitory parts; wherein, by the disposition of a stupendous wisdom, moulding together the great mysterious incorporation of the human race, the whole, at one time, is never old, or middle aged, or young, but, in a condition of unchangeable constancy, moves on through the varied tenour of perpetual decay, fall, renovation, and progression."""
5491,"I had heard of them by vague rumour, and realised that they could not be upon any map of today; but the fact that they were forgotten only endeared them to me, so that I had sought them with twice my usual eagerness."
5492,"Others will toss these pages lightly over: to you, Woodville, kind, affectionate friend, they will be dear the precious memorials of a heart broken girl who, dying, is still warmed by gratitude towards you: your tears will fall on the words that record my misfortunes; I know they will and while I have life I thank you for your sympathy."
5493,A mirror betrayed the sign to Idris she started up.
5494,That was the end of our voluntary searchings in the caverns of dream.
5495,"But the intermediate steps, the climbing the wall, raised up between what was and is, while I still looked back nor saw the concealed desert beyond, is a labour past my strength."
5496,HORROR and fatality have been stalking abroad in all ages.
5497,I could scarcely restrain my indignation while I perused the concluding portions of this diatribe.
5498,On the morning of the th Gilman awaked into a maelstrom of horror.
5499,Our result is founded upon the following observations taken during frequent visits to the exhibition of Maelzel.
5500,"How is it possible to extort a meaning from all this jargon about 'devil's seats,' 'death's heads,' and 'bishop's hotels?'"" ""I confess,"" replied Legrand, ""that the matter still wears a serious aspect, when regarded with a casual glance."
5501,"""In the present case indeed in all cases of secret writing the first question regards the language of the cipher; for the principles of solution, so far, especially, as the more simple ciphers are concerned, depend upon, and are varied by, the genius of the particular idiom."
5502,"Indeed, a strong relish for physical philosophy has, I fear, tinctured my mind with a very common error of this age I mean the habit of referring occurrences, even the least susceptible of such reference, to the principles of that science."
5503,"So only Briden and Johansen reached the boat, and pulled desperately for the Alert as the mountainous monstrosity flopped down the slimy stones and hesitated floundering at the edge of the water."
5504,"""And the paper on the walls?"" ""Yes."""
5505,"We estimated the entire contents of the chest, that night, at a million and a half of dollars; and upon the subsequent disposal of the trinkets and jewels a few being retained for our own use, it was found that we had greatly undervalued the treasure."
5506,All was in vain; the death that had come had left no trace save destruction itself.
5507,"""Come,"" said Adrian, ""I have promised for you, enable me to keep my engagement."
5508,"About six o'clock his sharpened ears caught the whining prayers of Joe Mazurewicz two floors below, and in desperation he seized his hat and walked out into the sunset golden streets, letting the now directly southward pull carry him where it might."
5509,"Pompey, bring me that leg"" Here Pompey handed the bundle, a very capital cork leg, already dressed, which it screwed on in a trice; and then it stood up before my eyes."
5510,"A third admitted him X entric, but no more."
5511,That Crawford Tillinghast should ever have studied science and philosophy was a mistake.
5512,But in a new country you can get used to it.
5513,"""I ask but one thing; I do not fear His hell, for I have it here; I do not desire His heaven, let me but die and be laid beside them; let me but, when I lie dead, feel my flesh as it moulders, mingle with theirs."
5514,"I stood watching the scene, while Adrian flitted like a shadow in among them, and, by a word and look of sobriety, endeavoured to restore order in the assembly."
5515,"He came, therefore, sometimes to see that I was not neglected, but his visits were short and with long intervals."
5516,"But as Jermyn indulged in these reflections he could not but smile at their futility, a century and a half after the death of both of his strange progenitors."
5517,"I felt that I tottered upon the brink I averted my eyes There was a discordant hum of human voices There was a loud blast as of many trumpets There was a harsh grating as of a thousand thunders The fiery walls rushed back An outstretched arm caught my own as I fell, fainting, into the abyss."
5518,"""Well, then, was it this eye or that through which you dropped the beetle?"""
5519,"Shortly after waking on that morning after the storm, I noticed the unaccountable absence of my Hindoo ring from my finger."
5520,"Dances in the modern cemeteries were freely pictured, and another conception somehow shocked me more than all the rest a scene in an unknown vault, where scores of the beasts crowded about one who held a well known Boston guide book and was evidently reading aloud."
5521,"Down and still down, it came."
5522,Oh No mortal could support the horror of that countenance.
5523,I do not believe I need to wait for the full change as most have waited.
5524,"Then I thought of the season, and felt that these old Puritan folk might well have Christmas customs strange to me, and full of silent hearthside prayer."
5525,"When such a thought was heedlessly uttered, the hearers, with a gush of tears and passionate sobs, bore witness how deep their fears were, how small their hopes."
5526,I now feel that I have reached a point of this narrative at which every reader will be startled into positive disbelief.
5527,"I do not know how long I remained in this situation, but when I awoke I found that the sun had already mounted considerably."
5528,Haow'd ye like to be a little shaver alone up in a cupalo a watchin' shapes as wa'n't human shapes? . . .
5529,Who can describe their horror and consternation on beholding me?
5530,"What the suspicion is, however, I will not say just yet."
5531,"Mingled with this horror, I felt the bitterness of disappointment; dreams that had been my food and pleasant rest for so long a space were now become a hell to me; and the change was so rapid, the overthrow so complete Morning, dismal and wet, at length dawned and discovered to my sleepless and aching eyes the church of Ingolstadt, its white steeple and clock, which indicated the sixth hour."
5532,"Does 'Oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, know is he aware that we could not be paid to insert it?"""
5533,In this year was the portrait taken.
5534,"The plunge into this pit I had avoided by the merest of accidents, I knew that surprise, or entrapment into torment, formed an important portion of all the grotesquerie of these dungeon deaths."
5535,"Thus I promised myself, as I journied towards my destination with roused and ardent expectation: expectation of the fulfilment of all that in boyhood we promise ourselves of power and enjoyment in maturity."
5536,"They shewed the visitor the grave, barren and devoid of markers."
5537,"Summer boarders have indeed scanned it with jaunty binoculars, but have never seen more than the grey primeval roof, peaked and shingled, whose eaves come nearly to the grey foundations, and the dim yellow light of the little windows peeping out from under those eaves in the dusk."
5538,"Here we were permitted to have glass windows even to have them open and something like a distinct view of the country was attainable.... Pundit says that the route for the great Kanadaw railroad must have been in some measure marked out about nine hundred years ago In fact, he goes so far as to assert that actual traces of a road are still discernible traces referable to a period quite as remote as that mentioned."
5539,"I had scarcely uttered these words than a flash instantly followed by a tremendous peal of thunder descended on it; and when my eyes recovered their sight after the dazzling light, the oak no longer stood in the meadow The old man uttered a wild exclamation of horror when he saw so sudden an interpretation given to my prophesy."
5540,The air was cold and misty.
5541,"We never even in our wildest Hallowe'en moods visited this cellar by night, but in some of our daytime visits could detect the phosphorescence, especially when the day was dark and wet."
5542,"I cannot reckon the number of hours I spent in gazing at the sunken city with its buildings, arches, statues, and bridges, and the colossal temple with its beauty and mystery."
5543,"The most fetid and poisonous smells everywhere prevailed; and by the aid of that ghastly light which, even at midnight, never fails to emanate from a vapory and pestilential atmosphere, might be discerned lying in the by paths and alleys, or rotting in the windowless habitations, the carcass of many a nocturnal plunderer arrested by the hand of the plague in the very perpetration of his robbery."
5544,"For a moment I experienced all the pangs of suffocation; I became blind, and deaf, and giddy; and then some invisible fiend, I thought, struck me with his broad palm upon the back."
5545,"Why don't you laugh at Oliver's grandfather, who won't ride in a motor?"
5546,"At length the decrepit vehicle started with a jerk, and rattled noisily past the old brick buildings of State Street amidst a cloud of vapour from the exhaust."
5547,"Yet the purpose of his soul, his energy and ardent resolution, prevented any re action of sorrow."
5548,"Come we will leave to the left the loud harmony of the Pleiades, and swoop outward from the throne into the starry meadows beyond Orion, where, for pansies and violets, and heart's ease, are the beds of the triplicate and triple tinted suns."
5549,"But at length, as the labor drew nearer to its conclusion, there were admitted none into the turret; for the painter had grown wild with the ardor of his work, and turned his eyes from canvas merely, even to regard the countenance of his wife."
5550,"The students all attended the hasty funeral on the th, and bought an impressive wreath, though the latter was quite overshadowed by the tributes sent by wealthy Arkham citizens and by the municipality itself."
5551,"She fancied that Raymond would already be free, and that her tender attentions would come to entirely obliterate even the memory of his mischance."
5552,"And there is no quiet there, nor silence."
5553,"It was about the same period, if I remember aright, that, in an altercation of violence with him, in which he was more than usually thrown off his guard, and spoke and acted with an openness of demeanor rather foreign to his nature, I discovered, or fancied I discovered, in his accent, his air, and general appearance, a something which first startled, and then deeply interested me, by bringing to mind dim visions of my earliest infancy wild, confused and thronging memories of a time when memory herself was yet unborn."
5554,"He was the nineteenth Baron of a line whose beginnings went uncomfortably far back into the past unbelievably far, if vague tradition could be heeded, for there were family tales of a descent from pre Saxon times, when a certain Cnaeus Gabinius Capito, military tribune in the Third Augustan Legion then stationed at Lindum in Roman Britain, had been summarily expelled from his command for participation in certain rites unconnected with any known religion."
5555,"I wondered if my host could help me in the task at which I was labouring, and resolved to ask him about it later on."
5556,"But he is generally melancholy and despairing, and sometimes he gnashes his teeth, as if impatient of the weight of woes that oppresses him."
5557,"I shivered, pulled a blanket over the hideous face, and awakened the nurse."
5558,"What shall we think of a machine which can not only accomplish all this, but actually print off its elaborate results, when obtained, without the slightest intervention of the intellect of man?"
5559,"""At present we must occupy ourselves with other investigations."
5560,"""Well; you have heard, of course, the many stories current the thousand vague rumors afloat about money buried, somewhere upon the Atlantic coast, by Kidd and his associates."
5561,"In my most ungovernable moods I still retain a sense of propriety, et le chemin des passions me conduit as Lord Edouard in the ""Julie"" says it did him a la philosophie veritable."
5562,"Over and above the luminous and shadowy chaos arose a picture which, though vague, held the elements of consistency and permanence."
5563,Perdita's name was not mentioned; yet I could not doubt that love for her caused the vacillation of purpose that he exhibited.
5564,My father had expressed a wish in his letters that she should reside with me at his family mansion which was situated in a beautiful country near Richmond in Yorkshire.
5565,"There was also a moaning sound, not unlike the distant reverberation of surf, but more continuous, which, beginning with the first twilight, had grown in strength with the darkness."
5566,"It was not joy only that possessed me; I felt my flesh tingle with excess of sensitiveness, and my pulse beat rapidly."
5567,"By the by, Doctor Dubble L. Dee "" MYSELF."
5568,It was produced by a very simple though somewhat unusual happening.
5569,"It seems to me a wild adventure to find in this desart one like you quite solitary: you are young and lovely; your manners are refined and attractive; yet there is in your settled melancholy, and something, I know not what, in your expressive eyes that seems to seperate you from your kind: you shudder; pardon me, I entreat you but I cannot help expressing this once at least the lively interest I feel in your destiny."
5570,"I continued, as was my wont, to smile in his face, and he did not perceive that my smile now was at the thought of his immolation."
5571,"Armitage knew he would be meddling with terrible powers, yet saw that there was no other way to annul the deeper and more malign meddling which others had done before him."
5572,"I had a curious desire to look out of that window, over the wall and down the unseen slope at the glittering roofs and spires which must lie outspread there."
5573,"""Alas, for us,"" I cried, ""who have lost this latest honour of the world Beloved Raymond He is gone to the nations of the dead; he has become one of those, who render the dark abode of the obscure grave illustrious by dwelling there."
5574,"I will not speak Be it enough for you to know that I am miserable be it enough for you to know, that the painted veil of life is rent, that I sit for ever shrouded in darkness and gloom, that grief is my sister, everlasting lamentation my mate"" I endeavoured to console her; I did not question her but I caressed her, assured her of my deepest affection and my intense interest in the changes of her fortune: ""Dear words,"" she cried, ""expressions of love come upon my ear, like the remembered sounds of forgotten music, that had been dear to me."
5575,Sir David Brewster states the figure of the Turk to be of the size of life but in fact it is far above the ordinary size.
5576,"Then I thought of the abandoned railway to Rowley, whose solid line of ballasted, weed grown earth still stretched off to the northwest from the crumbling station on the edge of the river gorge."
5577,"The sky grew very dark, and the watchers hoped that the storm would prove a short, sharp one followed by clear weather."
5578,"Those sides loom up so darkly and precipitously that one wishes they would keep their distance, but there is no road by which to escape them."
5579,"A few days before we left Paris on our way to Switzerland, I received the following letter from Elizabeth: ""My dear Friend, ""It gave me the greatest pleasure to receive a letter from my uncle dated at Paris; you are no longer at a formidable distance, and I may hope to see you in less than a fortnight."
5580,Thou dost feel that I shudder.
5581,"If so, why are there only traces of the assassinated girl?"
5582,"Then everyone noticed a strangely unseasonable noise in the deep valley behind, and even in the underbrush of Sentinel Hill itself."
5583,I abhorred the face of man.
5584,"These are handed to him, when, having slightly examined them, he says: ""I don't much like this tobacco."
5585,"But it lay not in the power of images, or sensations, or impediments such as these, to stay the course of men who, naturally brave, and at that time especially, brimful of courage and of ""humming stuff"" would have reeled, as straight as their condition might have permitted, undauntedly into the very jaws of Death."
5586,"Frankenstein has daily declined in health; a feverish fire still glimmers in his eyes, but he is exhausted, and when suddenly roused to any exertion, he speedily sinks again into apparent lifelessness."
5587,"I no sooner perceived an abatement of the flames than, hurried on by an irresistible impulse, I endeavoured to penetrate the town."
5588,"The wind gibbers with Their voices, and the earth mutters with Their consciousness."
5589,"What other construction could I possibly put upon such conduct, on the part of a lady so beautiful so wealthy evidently so accomplished of so high breeding of so lofty a position in society in every regard so entirely respectable as I felt assured was Madame Lalande?"
5590,They abounded in the most ultra German opinions respecting the duello.
5591,"We did not think, judging from precedent, that it would pursue us far even at worst."
5592,"This difficulty of direct vision had troubled me more or less for the last forty eight hours; but my present enormous elevation brought closer together, as it were, the floating bodies of vapor, and the inconvenience became, of course, more and more palpable in proportion to my ascent."
5593,"I am quite weary of enduring the misery which hourly I do endure, and I will throw it off."
5594,The Turk plays with his left arm.
5595,During the whole of the day I continued to near the ice.
5596,"That the psychic or intellectual life might be impaired by the slight deterioration of sensitive brain cells which even a short period of death would be apt to cause, West fully realised."
5597,"He left me but I still was calm, and after I had saluted the starry sky and dewy earth with eyes of love and a contented good night, I slept sweetly, visited by dreams, the first of pleasure I had had for many long months."
5598,You see the things that float and flop about you and through you every moment of your life?
5599,"On each occasion investigation revealed nothing, and we began to ascribe the occurrences to imagination alone that same curiously disturbed imagination which still prolonged in our ears the faint far baying we thought we had heard in the Holland churchyard."
5600,She became at length convalescent finally well.
5601,"Despite a conservative training or because of it, for humdrum lives breed wistful longings of the unknown he swore a great oath to scale that avoided northern cliff and visit the abnormally antique grey cottage in the sky."
5602,We'll have some thing else in the botanical line.
5603,"The poor fellow was young, rather dark, and very handsome; probably an Italian or Greek, and undoubtedly of the Victory's crew."
5604,and day Like a thin exhalation melt away Both wrapping up their beams in clouds to be Themselves close mourners at this obsequie.
5605,A residence in Turkey was abhorrent to her; her religion and her feelings were alike averse to it.
5606,The drops of moisture trickle among the bones.
5607,"And now he was equally resentful of awaking, for he had found his fabulous city after forty weary years."
5608,"Adjusting the focus of the telescope, I again looked, and now made it out to be a human skull."
5609,"""Pretty much, but not altogether,"" said Legrand."
5610,"A sad faced woman in black answered my summons, and I was stung with disappointment when she told me in halting English that Gustaf Johansen was no more."
5611,"The wild disorder of the room; the corpse thrust, with the head downward, up the chimney; the frightful mutilation of the body of the old lady; these considerations, with those just mentioned, and others which I need not mention, have sufficed to paralyze the powers, by putting completely at fault the boasted acumen, of the government agents."
5612,"There was no use trying to evade it, for any alternative course would involve detours of possibly disastrous visibility and delaying effect."
5613,"The day was warm unusually so for the season there was hardly a breath of air stirring; and the multitude were in no bad humor at being now and then besprinkled with friendly showers of momentary duration, that fell from large white masses of cloud which chequered in a fitful manner the blue vault of the firmament."
5614,"Since then, the influence of the landed proprietors had augmented; and at first Ryland was not sorry to observe the machinations of Lord Raymond, which drew off many of his opponent's partizans."
5615,"""Take care of yourself, my dear Lord,"" I said."
5616,Shapes talkin' sign language with their hands . . .
5617,"A purse, or pocket book, being really lost, the loser inserts in one of the daily papers of a large city a fully descriptive advertisement."
5618,"In the centre of Sarnath they lay, covering a great space and encircled by a high wall."
5619,"But to morrow I die, and to day I would unburthen my soul."
5620,"The blue eyes of my angelic girl were fixed on this sweet emblem of herself: ""How the light palpitates,"" she said, ""which is that star's life."
5621,"My arrival was like the newly discovered lamp of a lighthouse to sailors, who are weathering some dangerous point."
5622,Idris could not endure to leave him in this state; nor was it right either to quit or take with us a young family for a journey of this description.
5623,"Such a thing as an unexplored, or even an unfrequently visited recess, amid its woods or groves, is not for a moment to be imagined."
5624,"I have often thought of offering my services to the pestilence stricken towns of France and Italy; but fear of paining you, and expectation of this catastrophe, withheld me."
5625,"I shudder at the thought of any, even the most trivial, incident, which may operate upon this intolerable agitation of soul."
5626,"And then in a moment he said, ""No, that must not be; you must not read Dante."
5627,"Nonsense Who does not remember that, at such a time as this, the eye, like a shattered mirror, multiplies the images of its sorrow, and sees in innumerable far off places, the woe which is close at hand?"
5628,"And if added to this there be a repellent unkemptness; a wild disorder of dress, a bushiness of dark hair white at the roots, and an unchecked growth of pure white beard on a face once clean shaven, the cumulative effect is quite shocking."
5629,"He, so refined, so intellectual, so fastidious, with so exquisite a perception of the faulty, and so keen an appreciation of the beautiful To be sure, the lady seemed especially fond of him particularly so in his absence when she made herself ridiculous by frequent quotations of what had been said by her ""beloved husband, Mr. Wyatt."""
5630,"And when my knock was answered I was fully afraid, because I had not heard any footsteps before the door creaked open."
5631,"We have watched over her; nursed her flickering existence; now she has fallen at once from youth to decrepitude, from health to immedicinable disease; even as we spend ourselves in struggles for her recovery, she dies; to all nations the voice goes forth, Hope is dead We are but mourners in the funeral train, and what immortal essence or perishable creation will refuse to make one in the sad procession that attends to its grave the dead comforter of humanity?"
5632,"But the voice was gentle, and of a quaint olden kind, so that Olney did not shudder when a brown hand reached out to help him over the sill and into that low room of black oak wainscots and carved Tudor furnishings."
5633,"The wretch saw me destroy the creature on whose future existence he depended for happiness, and with a howl of devilish despair and revenge, withdrew."
5634,"Throw the ignoratio elenchi in his teeth, and, at once, you have him annihilated."
5635,Let our affection expire but let it not be exchanged for distrust and recrimination.
5636,I studied him in his own works as well as in those of his European and American echoes.
5637,"There was bright moonlight over the snowless landscape, but we dressed the thing and carried it home between us through the deserted streets and meadows, as we had carried a similar thing one horrible night in Arkham."
5638,"Old Scribonius himself looked very grave, and the sharp voices of us later comers seemed to hold something of curious inappropriateness, as in a place of death or the temple of some mystic god."
5639,"Having procured mortar, sand, and hair, with every possible precaution, I prepared a plaster which could not be distinguished from the old, and with this I very carefully went over the new brickwork."
5640,"He also frequently goes in rear of the figure to remove the chess men which it has taken, and which it deposits, when taken, on the box to the left to its own left of the board."
5641,Yog Sothoth knows the gate.
5642,In a moment of fantastic whim I whispered questions to the reddening ears; questions of other worlds of which the memory might still be present.
5643,I touched upon my college indiscretions upon my extravagances upon my carousals upon my debts upon my flirtations.
5644,"This idea satisfied me, and I dismissed my curiosity for the nonce."
5645,"His habits were unhinged; his restless mind roused from its sleep, ambition must now be his companion through life; and if he did not succeed in his present attempt, she foresaw that unhappiness and cureless discontent would follow."
5646,"Do you believe, Verney, that I brought you to town for that?"
5647,"Upon the inside of each of these I had to scrawl a few lines on any subject which occurred to me as sufficiently mysterious signing all the epistles Tom Dobson, or Bobby Tompkins, or anything in that way."
5648,"The sound of firing, early on the following morning, informed us that advanced posts of the armies were engaged."
5649,The same may be said of the flowers in her hat.
5650,"I will answer the advertisement, get the Ourang Outang, and keep it close until this matter has blown over.'"""
5651,"I believe, to tell the truth, she always looked upon me as an idle boy, a mere make weight, good for nothing but building castles in the air, and was rather glad to get rid of me."
5652,The very difference of our dispositions gave zest to these conversations.
5653,"And he even talked with the Terrible Old Man, who was not fond of strangers, and was invited into his fearsomely archaic cottage where low ceilings and wormy panelling hear the echoes of disquieting soliloquies in the dark small hours."
5654,The mathematics are the science of form and quantity; mathematical reasoning is merely logic applied to observation upon form and quantity.
5655,"Upon the winding up of the tragedy involved in the deaths of Madame L'Espanaye and her daughter, the Chevalier dismissed the affair at once from his attention, and relapsed into his old habits of moody reverie."
5656,"Our conversation turned, naturally, upon the disaster, and especially upon the sad fate of poor Wyatt."
5657,"In my dreams I found a little of the beauty I had vainly sought in life, and wandered through old gardens and enchanted woods."
5658,But the worst shock came when my uncle shewed me the Orne jewellery in a downtown safe deposit vault.
5659,"I lived in a desolate country where there were none to praise And very few to love.A It is true that I now saw a little more of my aunt, but she was in every way an unsocial being; and to a timid child she was as a plant beneath a thick covering of ice; I should cut my hands in endeavouring to get at it."
5660,"I like him especially for one master stroke of cant, by which he has attained his reputation for ingenuity."
5661,I felt that this was insanity I sprang forward to throw it off; I rushed into the midst of the crowd.
5662,"""Your education may now be considered as finished it is high time you should scuffle for yourself and you cannot do a better thing than merely follow your nose so so so "" Here he kicked me down stairs and out of the door ""so get out of my house, and God bless you"" As I felt within me the divine afflatus, I considered this accident rather fortunate than otherwise."
5663,Then suddenly all thoughts of time were blotted out by an onrushing image of sharp intensity and unaccountable horror which had seized me before I knew what it really was.
5664,"My garments were torn, and they, as well as my hands, were stained with the blood of the man I had wounded; one hand grasped the dead birds my hard earned prey, the other held the knife; my hair was matted; my face besmeared with the same guilty signs that bore witness against me on the dripping instrument I clenched; my whole appearance was haggard and squalid."
5665,"Entering his room, he placed the spiky thing on the table, and lay down in complete mental and physical exhaustion without pausing to undress."
5666,"Rely, therefore, on your hopes; and if these friends are good and amiable, do not despair.'"
5667,"And yet that house, to the two persons in possession of certain information, equals or outranks in horror the wildest phantasy of the genius who so often passed it unknowingly, and stands starkly leering as a symbol of all that is unutterably hideous."
5668,"His vivacity, intelligence, and active spirit of benevolence, completed the conquest."
5669,"Well that paper wasn't a photograph of any background, after all."
5670,"I lay for two months on the point of death; my ravings, as I afterwards heard, were frightful; I called myself the murderer of William, of Justine, and of Clerval."
5671,"""You are mistaken; I know him well; he is both."
5672,"Some odd nervous affliction had me in its grip, and I found myself at times almost unable to shut my eyes."
5673,"Finally our combined strength loosened the stone, which we raised and tipped to one side."
5674,"Joe Slater was indeed awaking, though probably for the last time."
5675,"I exacted the most sacred oaths, that under no circumstances they would bury me until decomposition had so materially advanced as to render farther preservation impossible."
5676,"Beneath the shades of night, and through the day, whose garish light displays our solitude, thou wilt still be at my side, and even Windsor will not be regretted."""
5677,"Oh God help me Let him be alive It is all dark; in my abject misery I demand no more: no hope, no good: only passion, and guilt, and horror; but alive Alive My sensations choked me No tears fell yet I sobbed, and breathed short and hard; one only thought possessed me, and I could only utter one word, that half screaming was perpetually on my lips; Alive Alive I had taken the steward with me for he, much better than I, could make the requisite enquiries the poor old man could not restrain his tears as he saw my deep distress and knew the cause he sometimes uttered a few broken words of consolation: in moments like these the mistress and servant become in a manner equals and when I saw his old dim eyes wet with sympathizing tears; his gray hair thinly scattered on an age wrinkled brow I thought oh if my father were as he is decrepid hoary then I should be spared this pain When I had arrived at the nearest town I took post horses and followed the road my father had taken."
5678,"""There was still, however, another difficulty, which occasioned me some little disquietude."
5679,But the bank defaulter under cover explained to them that Anacreon was a gay old dog who lived many years ago and wrote about the fun he had when all the world was just like Sheehan's.
5680,"""The waters of the river have a saffron and sickly hue; and they flow not onwards to the sea, but palpitate forever and forever beneath the red eye of the sun with a tumultuous and convulsive motion."
5681,"The landlady, a slatternly, almost bearded Spanish woman named Herrero, did not annoy me with gossip or with criticisms of the late burning electric light in my third floor front hall room; and my fellow lodgers were as quiet and uncommunicative as one might desire, being mostly Spaniards a little above the coarsest and crudest grade."
5682,This is the best of all possible styles where the writer is in too great a hurry to think.
5683,"That it would vanish altogether was an hope too dear too heartfelt, to be expressed."
5684,"To seek rescue in the lifeboats would be to deliver ourselves into the hands of enemies unreasonably embittered against our great German nation, and our wireless had failed ever since the Victory affair to put us in touch with a fellow U boat of the Imperial Navy."
5685,Every one loved him; no shadow of envy or hate cast even from the meanest mind ever fell upon him.
5686,"Swiftly I thought Yes, I will witness the last scene of the drama."
5687,"I saw nothing beyond what had been stated in the ""Gazette des Tribunaux."""
5688,"The two upper black spots look like eyes, eh? and the longer one at the bottom like a mouth and then the shape of the whole is oval."""
5689,"""Well, suppose it is, Jup,"" replied Legrand, somewhat more earnestly, it seemed to me, than the case demanded, ""is that any reason for your letting the birds burn?"
5690,"She bade me remember that I really even knew not who she was what were her prospects, her connections, her standing in society."
5691,Witness led the way up stairs.
5692,Idris stood at a window that over looked the park; her maternal eyes sought her own children among the young crowd.
5693,It was by the light of candles that I read I recall the relentless dripping of the wax and there were chimes that came every now and then from distant belfries.
5694,"At one time he threatened to abandon the expedition if I remained insistent; a threat which proved effective, since he alone held the key to the thing."
5695,"pretensions to the discovery, in so serious a tone."
5696,"Do not again speak to me in this strain; but wait in submissive patience the event of what is passing around you."" ""Oh, yes"" I passionately replied, ""I will be very patient; I will not be rash or presumptuous: I will see the agonies, and tears, and despair of my father, my only friend, my hope, my shelter, I will see it all with folded arms and downcast eyes."
5697,"The curious manuscript record or diary of Wilbur Whateley, delivered to Miskatonic University for translation, had caused much worry and bafflement among the experts in languages both ancient and modern; its very alphabet, notwithstanding a general resemblance to the heavily shaded Arabic used in Mesopotamia, being absolutely unknown to any available authority."
5698,"On the occasion of the visit, ran the professor's manuscript, the sculptor abruptly asked for the benefit of his host's archaeological knowledge in identifying the hieroglyphics on the bas relief."
5699,Felix seemed peculiarly happy and with smiles of delight welcomed his Arabian.
5700,"In another moment he knew fear for the first time that night; for struggle as he would, he could not shake clear of the unknown grasp which held his feet in relentless captivity."
5701,"Those who modestly betook themselves to the smaller craft, for the most part achieved their watery journey in safety."
5702,"""Do you,"" said I, ""enjoy yourself, and let this be our rendezvous."
5703,"She stood erect in a singularly fragile canoe, and urged it with the mere phantom of an oar."
5704,"Indeed, we have had enough."
5705,"""You are young yet, my friend,"" replied my host, ""but the time will arrive when you will learn to judge for yourself of what is going on in the world, without trusting to the gossip of others."
5706,"Among these may be mentioned, as having beyond doubt existed, firstly, the coach invented by M. Camus for the amusement of Louis XIV when a child."
5707,I shall not pretend to describe the feelings with which I gazed.
5708,"The aversion displayed toward him by dogs had now become a matter of wide remark, and he was obliged to carry a pistol in order to traverse the countryside in safety."
5709,"They are vain, I know; how very vain in their attempt to soothe or comfort me."
5710,"As I slowly traversed the nitre encrusted passageway at the foot of the last staircase, the paving became very damp, and soon I saw by the light of my flickering torch that a blank, water stained wall impeded my journey."
5711,"If, dating our inquiries from the body found, and thence tracing a murderer, we yet discover this body to be that of some other individual than Marie; or, if starting from the living Marie, we find her, yet find her unassassinated in either case we lose our labor; since it is Monsieur G with whom we have to deal."
5712,The magistrate listened to me with attention and kindness.
5713,"Or it might have been that he became neither the one nor the other, in pursuance of an idea of his which I have already mentioned the idea, that in the contempt of ambition lay one of the essential principles of happiness on earth."
5714,"In a thousand spots the traces of the winter avalanche may be perceived, where trees lie broken and strewed on the ground, some entirely destroyed, others bent, leaning upon the jutting rocks of the mountain or transversely upon other trees."
5715,Several of the Syrians have already been devoured; but the general voice of the four footed patriots seems to be for eating up the cameleopard.
5716,"His temperament was markedly nervous, and rendered him a good subject for mesmeric experiment."
5717,"The Fryes, huddled together in the sitting room, did not dare to move until the last echoes died away far down in Cold Spring Glen."
5718,"The result of the natural style of gardening, is seen rather in the absence of all defects and incongruities in the prevalence of a healthy harmony and order than in the creation of any special wonders or miracles."
5719,Why did I rush upon my fate?
5720,"There was, too, the baffling problem of the lesser messengers or intermediaries the quasi animals and queer hybrids which legend depicts as witches' familiars."
5721,One by one they left her at length she pressed the hand of her last visitor.
5722,I entreated Adrian to return to me after he had conducted his sister home.
5723,"I learned from your papers that you were my father, my creator; and to whom could I apply with more fitness than to him who had given me life?"
5724,"My first thought was to discover what I knew of the murderer, and cause instant pursuit to be made."
5725,"That the school, indeed, did not feel his design, perceive its accomplishment, and participate in his sneer, was, for many anxious months, a riddle I could not resolve."
5726,"I could find, indeed, but one vulnerable point, and that, lying in a personal peculiarity, arising, perhaps, from constitutional disease, would have been spared by any antagonist less at his wit's end than myself; my rival had a weakness in the faucal or guttural organs, which precluded him from raising his voice at any time above a very low whisper."
5727,"To die laughing, must be the most glorious of all glorious deaths Sir Thomas More a very fine man was Sir Thomas More Sir Thomas More died laughing, you remember."
5728,"Explanation You may possibly say, What can Elizabeth have to explain?"
5729,"If they all came from the same object it must have been an hysterical, delirious monstrosity."
5730,"Man You may hate, but beware Your hours will pass in dread and misery, and soon the bolt will fall which must ravish from you your happiness forever."
5731,"My future hopes and prospects are entirely bound up in the expectation of our union."""
5732,"Every cavity, apophysis, and curvature was imitated, and each bone executed its proper movements."
5733,The sight of it soothed her.
5734,"Then, when he was in deep shadow again, he recalled with a start that the glimpse must have come from childish memory alone, since the old white church had long been torn down to make room for the Congregational Hospital."
5735,"If, however, it so please your Excellencies, I, the writer of this communication, am the identical Hans Pfaall himself."
5736,I took it; it was a portrait of a most lovely woman.
5737,"Her utterance of the romance in Otello the tone with which she gave the words ""Sul mio sasso,"" in the Capuletti is ringing in my memory yet."
5738,It followed my footsteps with a pertinacity which it would be difficult to make the reader comprehend.
5739,"The afflicted man was fully conscious, but would say nothing of any consequence; merely muttering such things as ""oh, my ankles"", ""let go"", or ""shut in the tomb""."
5740,"The man who found me said that I must have crawled a long way despite my broken bones, for a trail of blood stretched off as far as he dared look."
5741,"The idea was terrible to my half crazed imagination, and almost over turned the little self possession that still remained to me."
5742,"To be sure, it has a circulation of ,, and its subscription list has increased one fourth during the last month; but, on the other hand, the sums it disburses constantly for contributions are inconceivable."
5743,"She was greatly devoted to her unfortunate sister, and had an especial affection for her only surviving nephew William, who from a sturdy infant had become a sickly, spindling lad."
5744,"Elihu Whipple had lived according to the hygienic laws he had preached as a physician, and but for what happened later would be here in full vigour today."
5745,"I now saw that the hall room above mine the ""leetle room"" of bottles and machines which Mrs. Herrero had mentioned was merely the laboratory of the doctor; and that his main living quarters lay in the spacious adjoining room whose convenient alcoves and large contiguous bathroom permitted him to hide all dressers and obtrusive utilitarian devices."
5746,"He was indubitably a"" ""How can you?"
5747,"That the latter, creating the former, can, at will, control or modify it, is also unquestionable."
5748,But this feeling soon gave place to irritation.
5749,"During the brightest days of her unparalleled beauty, most surely I had never loved her."
5750,"And 'Oppodeldoc' whoever he is, has even the assurance to demand pay for this drivel."
5751,Most interesting of all was a glancing reference to the strange jewellery vaguely associated with Innsmouth.
5752,"Holding with Haeckel that all life is a chemical and physical process, and that the so called ""soul"" is a myth, my friend believed that artificial reanimation of the dead can depend only on the condition of the tissues; and that unless actual decomposition has set in, a corpse fully equipped with organs may with suitable measures be set going again in the peculiar fashion known as life."
5753,"All this I endeavoured to veil, so that it might least impress my Idris; yet, as I have said, my courage survived even despair: I might be vanquished, but I would not yield."
5754,When the view of the water again opened out this time on my right I was half determined not to look at it at all.
5755,"As I was in a state of extreme debility, I resolved to sail directly towards the town, as a place where I could most easily procure nourishment."
5756,"I persuaded Idris to go up to London, where she might better attend to necessary arrangements."
5757,"I led them, at length, to his chamber."
5758,His wild and enthusiastic imagination was chastened by the sensibility of his heart.
5759,"Could not make out what was said, but believed the language to be Spanish."
5760,"""It was not a new terror that thus affected me, but the dawn of a more exciting hope."
5761,"He started with what he maintained to be axioms or ""self evident truths,"" and thence proceeded ""logically"" to results."
5762,"""Little alteration, except the growth of our dear children, has taken place since you left us."
5763,These fellows are always doing the most out of the way things in what they call an orderly manner.
5764,"In two years, I should return to my country, with a name well known and a reputation already founded."
5765,"The space south of the house, abutting on Benefit Street, was of course greatly above the existing sidewalk level, forming a terrace bounded by a high bank wall of damp, mossy stone pierced by a steep flight of narrow steps which led inward between canyon like surfaces to the upper region of mangy lawn, rheumy brick walls, and neglected gardens whose dismantled cement urns, rusted kettles fallen from tripods of knotty sticks, and similar paraphernalia set off the weather beaten front door with its broken fanlight, rotting Ionic pilasters, and wormy triangular pediment."
5766,"""Goodness gracious me"" I exclaimed, almost at the very instant that the rim of the spectacles had settled upon my nose ""My goodness gracious me why, what can be the matter with these glasses?"" and taking them quickly off, I wiped them carefully with a silk handkerchief, and adjusted them again."
5767,"The upper part, where it had been doubled and folded, was all mildewed and rotten, and tore on its being opened....."
5768,It is this wild longing it is this eager vehemence of desire for life but for life that I have no power to portray no utterance capable of expressing.
5769,"""Now, in English, the letter which most frequently occurs is e."
5770,"The taste of all the architects I have ever known leads them, for the sake of 'prospect,' to put up buildings on hill tops."
5771,"The scene I cannot describe I should faint if I tried it, for there is madness in a room full of classified charnel things, with blood and lesser human debris almost ankle deep on the slimy floor, and with hideous reptilian abnormalities sprouting, bubbling, and baking over a winking bluish green spectre of dim flame in a far corner of black shadows."
5772,"This thing, which seemed instinct with a fearsome and unnatural malignancy, was of a somewhat bloated corpulence, and squatted evilly on a rectangular block or pedestal covered with undecipherable characters."
5773,"At length, with a deep sigh, he exclaimed, as if in a soliloquy, ""And dis all cum ob de goole bug de putty goole bug de poor little goole bug, what I boosed in dat sabage kind ob style Aint you shamed ob yourself, nigger?"
5774,"Springing to the floor, he washed and dressed in frantic haste, as if it were necessary for him to get out of the house as quickly as possible."
5775,We were for ever together; and the subjects of our conversations were inexhaustible.
5776,"Herbert West, whose associate and assistant I was, possessed scientific interests far beyond the usual routine of a village physician."
5777,This I at once saw could not be.
5778,There is a real and very definite limit to optical discovery among the stars a limit whose nature need only be stated to be understood.
5779,"The birds sang in more cheerful notes, and the leaves began to bud forth on the trees."
5780,"His voice varied rapidly from a tremulous indecision when the animal spirits seemed utterly in abeyance to that species of energetic concision that abrupt, weighty, unhurried, and hollow sounding enunciation that leaden, self balanced and perfectly modulated guttural utterance, which may be observed in the lost drunkard, or the irreclaimable eater of opium, during the periods of his most intense excitement."
5781,"They made many signs which I did not comprehend, but I saw that her presence diffused gladness through the cottage, dispelling their sorrow as the sun dissipates the morning mists."
5782,Concerning the picture she could give no account.
5783,Have I not heard her footstep on the stair?
5784,"Dupin was moving quickly to the door, when we again heard him coming up."
5785,"And again I sunk into visions of Ligeia and again, what marvel that I shudder while I write, again there reached my ears a low sob from the region of the ebony bed."
5786,"Finally I was sure it was not a face at all, but a fiendishly cunning mask."
5787,"Scorning all restraint, it had clambered first to the lower roof then to the higher; and along the ridge of this latter it continued to writhe on, throwing out tendrils to the right and left, until at length it fairly attained the east gable, and fell trailing over the stairs."
5788,"A weak, filtered glow from the rain harassed street lamps outside, and a feeble phosphorescence from the detestable fungi within, shewed the dripping stone of the walls, from which all traces of whitewash had vanished; the dank, foetid, and mildew tainted hard earth floor with its obscene fungi; the rotting remains of what had been stools, chairs, and tables, and other more shapeless furniture; the heavy planks and massive beams of the ground floor overhead; the decrepit plank door leading to bins and chambers beneath other parts of the house; the crumbling stone staircase with ruined wooden hand rail; and the crude and cavernous fireplace of blackened brick where rusted iron fragments revealed the past presence of hooks, andirons, spit, crane, and a door to the Dutch oven these things, and our austere cot and camp chairs, and the heavy and intricate destructive machinery we had brought."
5789,"And the same feelings which made me neglect the scenes around me caused me also to forget those friends who were so many miles absent, and whom I had not seen for so long a time."
5790,"The next morning he was quite recovered, so far as regarded his mere bodily health."
5791,"Before dawn I led my flock to the sheep walks, and guarded them through the day."
5792,"So shall it not be Did not Alexander leap from the walls of the city of the Oxydracae, to shew his coward troops the way to victory, encountering alone the swords of its defenders?"
5793,"Circumstances, and a certain bias of mind, have led me to take interest in such riddles, and it may well be doubted whether human ingenuity can construct an enigma of the kind which human ingenuity may not, by proper application, resolve."
5794,"I believe that my mind was partly unhinged by events since August th; the daemon shadow in the mansion, the general strain and disappointment, and the thing that occurred at the hamlet in an October storm."
5795,"Lord Cornwallis was surrendered for sausage ""under the auspices of the Washington Monument Association"" no doubt a charitable institution for the depositing of corner stones."
5796,"My teeth chatter as I speak, yet it is not with the chilliness of the night of the night without end."
5797,"He is easy easy as an old glove, or the damsels of ancient Baiae."
5798,It is only the inferior thinker who hastens to explain the singular and the complex by the primitive short cut of supernaturalism.
5799,"Presently I heard a slight groan, and I knew it was the groan of mortal terror."
5800,"Around the creature's neck had been found a golden chain bearing an empty locket on which were armorial designs; no doubt some hapless traveller's keepsake, taken by the N'bangus and hung upon the goddess as a charm."
5801,But all agreed on one thing: that the refusal of all the cats to eat their portions of meat or drink their saucers of milk was exceedingly curious.
5802,The coffin of Jan Martense had soon been unearthed it now held only dust and nitre but in my fury to exhume his ghost I delved irrationally and clumsily down beneath where he had lain.
5803,In these last moments I feel the sincerest gratitude towards those who think of me with kindness.
5804,"And it is written in the papyrus of Ilarnek, that they one day discovered fire, and thereafter kindled flames on many ceremonial occasions."
5805,"It appears that, immediately after the discovery of the clothes as above described, the lifeless, or nearly lifeless body of St. Eustache, Marie's betrothed, was found in the vicinity of what all now supposed the scene of the outrage."
5806,And the life of the ebony clock went out with that of the last of the gay.
5807,"Haff on 'em's clean gone, an' nigh haff o' them that's left is sucked most dry o' blood, with sores on 'em like they's ben on Whateley's cattle ever senct Lavinny's black brat was born."
5808,I know not how adequately to describe it.
5809,There was about it an evidence of great age and infirmity.
5810,"We marked the difference of character among the boys, and endeavoured to read the future man in the stripling."
5811,And mixed with the distant chant of the Sabbat and the whimpers of Brown Jenkin in the gulf below he thought he heard another and wilder whine from unknown depths.
5812,"August th, My affection for my guest increases every day."
5813,"In the darkness I raised my free hand and tested the barrier, finding it stone and immovable."
5814,"""He was conveyed home, and the anguish that was visible in my countenance betrayed the secret to Elizabeth."
5815,"Now there were hoary and time honored forests, and craggy precipices, and waterfalls tumbling with a loud noise into abysses without a bottom."
5816,"And it was there that fulfilment came, and he met the cortege of knights come from Celephaïs to bear him thither forever."
5817,"But you are ill; even now you tremble; you are unfit for agitation of any kind."""
5818,"Lunch and dinner were brought him, but he ate only the smallest fraction of either."
5819,I found that I could not compose a female without again devoting several months to profound study and laborious disquisition.
5820,They must have fixed up some awful scare for that fellow.
5821,"Thus I felt, when disappointment, weariness, and solitude drove me back upon my heart, to gather thence the joy of which it had become barren."
5822,"The little bark to which I had beckoned had now pulled up; before I could stop her, Perdita, assisted by the sailors was in it Clara followed her mother a loud shout echoed from the crowd as we pulled out of the inner harbour; while my sister at the prow, had caught hold of one of the men who was using a glass, asking a thousand questions, careless of the spray that broke over her, deaf, sightless to all, except the little speck that, just visible on the top of the waves, evidently neared."
5823,It had rested a heavy arm or fore leg on my chest. . . .
5824,"Once in a while I noticed dead stumps and crumbling foundation walls above the drifting sand, and recalled the old tradition quoted in one of the histories I had read, that this was once a fertile and thickly settled countryside."
5825,"It appears that on the day of I am not positive about the date, a vast crowd of people, for purposes not specifically mentioned, were assembled in the great square of the Exchange in the well conditioned city of Rotterdam."
5826,The very memory half unmans me.
5827,My formerly silent tongue waxed voluble with the easy grace of a Chesterfield or the godless cynicism of a Rochester.
5828,"He became cheerful, as he thought of this, and soberly and resolutely marked out the line of conduct he would adopt."
5829,Almost fainting I slowly approached the fatal waters; when we had quitted the town we heard their roaring.
5830,"One thing, however, annoyed me not a little."
5831,"I likewise did much of his shopping, and gasped in bafflement at some of the chemicals he ordered from druggists and laboratory supply houses."
5832,Piles of death furniture floundered about.
5833,"The conditions we have imposed must be fulfilled to the letter, and that without a moment's hesitation in failure of which fulfilment we decree that you do here be tied neck and heels together, and duly drowned as rebels in yon hogshead of October beer"" ""A sentence a sentence a righteous and just sentence a glorious decree a most worthy and upright, and holy condemnation"" shouted the Pest family altogether."
5834,"She resided at the palace of Sweet Waters, a summer seraglio of the Sultan; the beauty of the surrounding scenery, undefiled by war, and the freshness of the river, made this spot doubly delightful."
5835,"Wisely did Ibn Schacabao say, that happy is the tomb where no wizard hath lain, and happy the town at night whose wizards are all ashes."
5836,"The story is too connected to be mistaken for a dream, and I have no motive for falsehood."""
5837,"Gradually I had come to be his inseparable assistant, and now that we were out of college we had to keep together."
5838,"The mention of the galvanic battery, nevertheless, recalls to my memory a well known and very extraordinary case in point, where its action proved the means of restoring to animation a young attorney of London, who had been interred for two days."
5839,"""Still"" said I, ""and why shouldn't she be?"
5840,A more intense feeling of the reality of fiction possessed Raymond.
5841,Bizarre manifestations were now too frequent to count.
5842,It was your journal of the four months that preceded my creation.
5843,"""Heh, heh, heh, heh Beginnin' to see, hey?"
5844,At the same time the wolfish wind rose to daemoniac crescendoes of ululation.
5845,Then there was a more subtle fear a very fantastic sensation resulting from a curious experiment in the Canadian army in .
5846,"On the third night frantic bands of searchers, led by the police, captured it in a house on Crane Street near the Miskatonic campus."
5847,"He has journied on the road that leads to it, and joined the mighty of soul who went before him."
5848,"In many palaces, however, such suites form a long and straight vista, while the folding doors slide back nearly to the walls on either hand, so that the view of the whole extent is scarcely impeded."
5849,"Weak spirited women died of fear as they listened to their denunciations; men of robust form and seeming strength fell into idiotcy and madness, racked by the dread of coming eternity."
5850,"When she saw who it was, she approached me and said, ""Dear sir, you are very kind to visit me; you, I hope, do not believe that I am guilty?"""
5851,A sort of mad eyed monstrosity behind the leader seized on Herbert West.
5852,The tastes of the duke were peculiar.
5853,I am malicious because I am miserable.
5854,"Two days after we came to our determination, we set out for Portsmouth, and embarked."
5855,"About seven o'clock Luther Brown, the hired boy at George Corey's, between Cold Spring Glen and the village, rushed frenziedly back from his morning trip to Ten Acre Meadow with the cows."
5856,"I rode one morning with Raymond to the lofty mound, not far from the Top Kapou, Cannon gate, on which Mahmoud planted his standard, and first saw the city."
5857,"He climbed interminably along the grotesque stone moulding that is, one would call it climbing if the thing was not after all horizontal and the men wondered how any door in the universe could be so vast."
5858,The sea is peculiarly phosphorescent.
5859,All the bones of the right leg and arm were more or less shattered.
5860,Are such things the operation of ungoverned Chance?
5861,"The denouncing of the assassins would have appeared, even to an idiot, the surest and sole means of relieving himself from suspicion."
5862,"As I put my foot over the threshold, I became aware of the figure of a youth about my own height, and habited in a white kerseymere morning frock, cut in the novel fashion of the one I myself wore at the moment."
5863,"Thus saying, in order to obtain a more distinct view of my subject, I applied my thumb and forefinger to its nose, and causing it to assume a sitting position upon the ground, held it thus, at the length of my arm, while I continued my soliloquy."
5864,"I questioned the sleep waker again: ""Do you still feel pain in the breast, M. Valdemar?"""
5865,"You dare not keep me.' ""'Frankenstein you belong then to my enemy to him towards whom I have sworn eternal revenge; you shall be my first victim.'"
5866,Her delicate organization and creative imagination rendered her peculiarly susceptible of pleasurable emotion.
5867,"But now it appears that we had worked out our own destruction in the perversion of our taste, or rather in the blind neglect of its culture in the schools."
5868,"That Hallowe'en the hill noises sounded louder than ever, and fire burned on Sentinel Hill as usual; but people paid more attention to the rhythmical screaming of vast flocks of unnaturally belated whippoorwills which seemed to be assembled near the unlighted Whateley farmhouse."
5869,"As Madame Lalande spoke English even less fluently than she wrote it, our conversation was necessarily in French."
5870,"There was another interval of utter insensibility; it was brief; for, upon again lapsing into life there had been no perceptible descent in the pendulum."
5871,"I wait but for one event, and then I shall repose in peace."
5872,I shut my eyes involuntarily and endeavoured to recollect what were my duties with regard to this destroyer.
5873,"That night Slater slept quietly, and the next morning he wakened with no singular feature save a certain alteration of expression."
5874,"And here, having arranged the glasses in the ordinary form of spectacles, I applied them gingerly in their proper position; while Madame Simpson, adjusting her cap, and folding her arms, sat bolt upright in her chair, in a somewhat stiff and prim, and indeed, in a somewhat undignified position."
5875,"After he had been employed thus about an hour, the young woman joined him and they entered the cottage together."
5876,"The shadow I had seen, I hardly dared to analyse or identify."
5877,"I would fain have them believe that I have been, in some measure, the slave of circumstances beyond human control."
5878,"I sometimes strove to form friendships with the most attractive of the girls who inhabited the neighbouring village; but I believe I should never have succeeded even had not my aunt interposed her authority to prevent all intercourse between me and the peasantry; for she was fearful lest I should acquire the scotch accent and dialect; a little of it I had, although great pains was taken that my tongue should not disgrace my English origin."
5879,"I reached out to uncurl and look at it, when suddenly I saw Pickman start as if shot."
5880,"The expression on her face was one of hideous malevolence and exultation, and when he awaked he could recall a croaking voice that persuaded and threatened."
5881,I could not have said this; it is an absurdity.
5882,"In the concluding sentences it quoted the noble words of Ariosto Il pover hommy che non sera corty And have a combat tenty erry morty; thus comparing me to the hero who, in the heat of the combat, not perceiving that he was dead, continued to contest the battle with inextinguishable valor."
5883,"Sometimes it enters directly into the composition of the events, while sometimes it relates only to their fortuitous position among persons and places."
5884,I do believe that I blushed with shame when this idea crossed my mind.
5885,"I know nothing, indeed, which so disfigures the countenance of a young person, or so impresses every feature with an air of demureness, if not altogether of sanctimoniousness and of age."
5886,"My host appeared not to notice this, and in courtesy I kept silent as he piloted me up a curving stairway, across a hall, and into a room whose door I heard him lock behind us."
5887,"I should mention, too, that this limb was no farther subject to my will."
5888,"Romero and I moved without material hesitancy through drifts and down ladders; ever toward the thing that allured us, yet ever with a pitifully helpless fear and reluctance."
5889,Yet what business had I with hope?
5890,The generality of the expression of L'Etoile is a mere perversion of the witness' phraseology.
5891,"The permission was obtained, and we proceeded at once to the Rue Morgue."
5892,I am just come from him.
5893,"Thus the affair died away, and was generally forgotten; for the girl, ostensibly to relieve herself from the impertinence of curiosity, soon bade a final adieu to the perfumer, and sought the shelter of her mother's residence in the Rue Pavée Saint Andrée."
5894,"Raymond was weak and exhausted, yet the interest he perceived to be excited on his account, filled him with proud pleasure."
5895,"Farewell, Walton Seek happiness in tranquillity and avoid ambition, even if it be only the apparently innocent one of distinguishing yourself in science and discoveries."
5896,"There was sufficient presence of mind it is supposed to remove the corpse; and yet a more positive evidence than the corpse itself whose features might have been quickly obliterated by decay, is allowed to lie conspicuously in the scene of the outrage I allude to the handkerchief with the name of the deceased."
5897,"The balloon was brought over the beach the tide being out and the sand hard, smooth, and admirably adapted for a descent, and the grapnel let go, which took firm hold at once."
5898,"Two hundred years and more they have leaned or squatted there, while the vines have crawled and the trees have swelled and spread."
5899,The sentence the dread sentence of death was the last of distinct accentuation which reached my ears.
5900,As he went upstairs and across the garret hall he sprinkled about some flour which he had borrowed with a frank admission as to its purpose from the landlord.
5901,There was too deep a horror in my tale for confidence; I was on earth the sole depository of my own secret.
5902,I can still see Herbert West under the sinister electric light as he injected his reanimating solution into the arm of the headless body.
5903,In another fortnight I was able to leave my chamber.
5904,The extent of my renown will be best estimated by reference to the editorial opinions of the day.
5905,"In the present instance we see it doubled no less than five times, although the cryptograph is brief."
5906,"Duns, in the meantime, left me little leisure for contemplation."
5907,But who and what was this Wilson?
5908,We shall not then be degraded from our true characters.
5909,"Hope only supported me, the hope that I should not be too late."
5910,"It must exist, I argued; although it may exist in a state of infinite rarefaction."
5911,"For three days the body was preserved unburied, during which it had acquired a stony rigidity."
5912,I do not ever remember to have trembled at a tale of superstition or to have feared the apparition of a spirit.
5913,"""Who are you, pray?"" said I, with much dignity, although somewhat puzzled; ""how did you get here?"
5914,His was a case in which I feel a deep interest a lot in which I sincerely sympathize.
5915,"To this life, miserable father, I devote thee Go Be thy days passed with savages, and thy nights under the cope of heaven Be thy limbs worn and thy heart chilled, and all youth be dead within thee Let thy hairs be as snow; thy walk trembling and thy voice have lost its mellow tones Let the liquid lustre of thine eyes be quenched; and then return to me, return to thy Mathilda, thy child, who may then be clasped in thy loved arms, while thy heart beats with sinless emotion."
5916,"It hath been my good fortune to retain the rural seat of my ancestors, swallowed though it was by two towns, first Greenwich, which built up hither after , then New York, which joined on near ."
5917,"""Alfonzo Garcio, undertaker, deposes that he resides in the Rue Morgue."
5918,"And although, to a careless thinker, it might appear a matter beyond doubt, that the alteration produced by her unhappy malady, in the moral condition of Berenice, would afford me many objects for the exercise of that intense and abnormal meditation whose nature I have been at some trouble in explaining, yet such was not in any degree the case."
5919,Let me not forget my chiefest errand here.
5920,"Such, you will allow, is the massacre of a thousand Jews."
5921,"It is not that the Deity cannot modify his laws, but that we insult him in imagining a possible necessity for modification."
5922,"And I could not laugh with the Demon, and he cursed me because I could not laugh."
5923,"They roared like the animals they were, and broke instruments and furniture indiscriminately; screaming about such nonsense as the curse of the ivory image and the dark dead youth who looked at them and swam away."
5924,"I recalled what he had said of the pineal gland, and wondered what he saw with this preternatural eye."
5925,"A practised ear might trace an undue faltering in the step of the soldiers; but this was not occasioned so much by fear of the adversary, as by disease, by sorrow, and by fatal prognostications, which often weighed most potently on the brave, and quelled the manly heart to abject subjection."
5926,The Scream of the Dead The scream of a dead man gave to me that acute and added horror of Dr. Herbert West which harassed the latter years of our companionship.
5927,"""And now what are we to make of the argument, that the body found could not be that of Marie Rogêt, because, three days only having elapsed, this body was found floating?"
5928,"See Behold they are becoming rather are they not?"""
5929,"""Where?"" ""Every where we must fly all fly but whither?"
5930,"That it is an opinion very generally received, or which ought to be generally received, that the College of Astronomers in the city of Rotterdam, as well as other colleges in all other parts of the world, not to mention colleges and astronomers in general, are, to say the least of the matter, not a whit better, nor greater, nor wiser than they ought to be."
5931,"I believe the world has never yet seen, and that, unless through some series of accidents goading the noblest order of mind into distasteful exertion, the world will never behold, that full extent of triumphant execution, in the richer productions of Art, of which the human nature is absolutely capable."
5932,Lord Raymond presented himself to the house with fearless confidence and insinuating address.
5933,"I would have to count on sheer speed, and the chance of getting to a window before any hostile forces became coördinated enough to open the right door toward me with a pass key."
5934,"It proceeded from a fissure, about half an inch in width, extending entirely around the prison at the base of the walls, which thus appeared, and were, completely separated from the floor."
5935,"The Sphinx is his cousin, and he speaks her language; but he is more ancient than the Sphinx, and remembers that which she hath forgotten."
5936,I had become captious and unreasonable: my temper was utterly spoilt.
5937,"Some poor fellow whom you address while choking with that chicken bone, and who therefore didn't precisely understand what you were talking about."
5938,"Slowly, amidst the distorted horrors of that indescribable scene, she began to churn the lethal waters; whilst on the masonry of that charnel shore that was not of earth the titan Thing from the stars slavered and gibbered like Polypheme cursing the fleeing ship of Odysseus."
5939,"""My child,"" and ""my love,"" were the designations usually prompted by a father's affection, and the rigid seclusion of her days precluded all other intercourse."
5940,A truce was concluded between the Greeks and Turks.
5941,"""Ahem rather civil that, I should observe."""
5942,"Certainly, the nerves were recalling the man's last act in life; the struggle to get free of the falling aëroplane."
5943,"A great fall of snow had taken place the night before, and the fields were of one uniform white; the appearance was disconsolate, and I found my feet chilled by the cold damp substance that covered the ground."
5944,"""I now arose hurriedly, and in a state of fearful agitation for the fancy that I dreamed would serve me no longer."
5945,"As the strong man exults in his physical ability, delighting in such exercises as call his muscles into action, so glories the analyst in that moral activity which disentangles."
5946,"I've had 'em pointed out to me here though, come to think of it, the elder children don't seem to be around lately."
5947,"At this point I was left to imagine the solution of the greatest mystery of all, how the curse had been fulfilled since that time when Charles Le Sorcier must in the course of Nature have died, for the man digressed into an account of the deep alchemical studies of the two wizards, father and son, speaking most particularly of the researches of Charles Le Sorcier concerning the elixir which should grant to him who partook of it eternal life and youth."
5948,Gilman whose ears had so lately possessed an abnormal sensitiveness was now stone deaf.
5949,A trap door on the roof was nailed down very securely did not appear to have been opened for years.
5950,"There is nothing more melancholy than a merry meeting thus turned to sorrow: the gala dresses the decorations, gay as they might otherwise be, receive a solemn and funereal appearance."
5951,"Alas I had turned loose into the world a depraved wretch, whose delight was in carnage and misery; had he not murdered my brother?"
5952,"One might, for example, pass into a timeless dimension and emerge at some remote period of the earth's history as young as before."
5953,"And who shall calculate the immense influence upon social life upon arts upon commerce upon literature which will be the immediate result of the great principles of electro magnetics Nor, is this all, let me assure you There is really no end to the march of invention."
5954,"He proved, however, too hopelessly drunk to be a menace; so that I reached the dismal ruins of the Bank Street warehouses in safety."
5955,"Both soldiers maintained that we could better afford to antagonise the minority of colonists and civilised natives by inaction, than to antagonise a probable majority of tribesmen and cottagers by stamping out the dread rites."
5956,"It was indeed a paradise compared to the bleak forest, my former residence, the rain dropping branches, and dank earth."
5957,"As the earth became more desolate, her difficulty in acquiring sustenance increased; at first, her son, who lived near, had humoured her by placing articles of food in her way: at last he died."
5958,"I called the peak a bit of outcropping rock, but Klenze thought he saw carvings on it."
5959,He knew he did walk and the thing to do now was to stop it.
5960,Many lustra had supervened.
5961,"And, hurriedly, he raised his head from his hand, and stood forth upon the rock and listened."
5962,"Legrasse, deeply impressed and not a little bewildered, had inquired in vain concerning the historic affiliations of the cult."
5963,"So here we all were in the mystic sunset of the autumn hills old Scribonius Libo in his toga prætexta, the golden light glancing on his shiny bald head and wrinkled hawk face, Balbutius with his gleaming helmet and breastplate, blue shaven lips compressed in conscientiously dogged opposition, young Asellius with his polished greaves and superior sneer, and the curious throng of townsfolk, legionaries, tribesmen, peasants, lictors, slaves, and attendants."
5964,"On April th the derelict was sighted; and though apparently deserted, was found upon boarding to contain one survivor in a half delirious condition and one man who had evidently been dead for more than a week."
5965,"I think that these things were supposed to depict men at least, a certain sort of men; though the creatures were shewn disporting like fishes in the waters of some marine grotto, or paying homage at some monolithic shrine which appeared to be under the waves as well."
5966,I felt sensations like those one feels when accidentally scratching ground glass.
5967,I rushed to the chair in which he sat.
5968,"I loved, I hoped, I enjoyed; but there was something besides this."
5969,"Before the marble walls on the appointed night were pitched the pavilions of princes and the tents of travellers, and all the shore resounded with the song of happy revellers."
5970,"A few words from us decided him, and hope and joy sparkled in his eyes; the idea of embarking in a career, so congenial to his early habits and cherished wishes, made him as before energetic and bold."
5971,"Chapter ""Such was the history of my beloved cottagers."
5972,"He reigns there still, and will reign happily forever, though below the cliffs at Innsmouth the channel tides played mockingly with the body of a tramp who had stumbled through the half deserted village at dawn; played mockingly, and cast it upon the rocks by ivy covered Trevor Towers, where a notably fat and especially offensive millionaire brewer enjoys the purchased atmosphere of extinct nobility."
5973,They were even fuller than the fullest of the gazelle eyes of the tribe of the valley of Nourjahad.
5974,"Whence but from ingratitude, from falsehood, from a dereliction on the part of the prince's father, of all noble sympathy and generous feeling."
5975,"When he went as ambassador to the Northern States of America, he, for some time, planned his entire migration; and went so far as to make several journies far westward on that immense continent, for the purpose of choosing the site of his new abode."
5976,"In brief, the floor was a veritable ossuary of the bones of small children some fairly modern, but others extending back in infinite gradations to a period so remote that crumbling was almost complete."
5977,"Some few of her crew were saved, but the greater part clinging to her cordage and masts went down with her, to rise only when death loosened their hold."
5978,"She turned aside her face, and again I saw only the chiselled contour of the back portion of the head."
5979,"In its surface were two iron staples, distant from each other about two feet, horizontally."
5980,"The neck of the animal, before arched, as if in compassion, over the prostrate body of its lord, was now extended, at full length, in the direction of the Baron."
5981,"Fronting him, sixthly and lastly, was situated a singularly stiff looking personage, who, being afflicted with paralysis, must, to speak seriously, have felt very ill at ease in his unaccommodating habiliments."
5982,"Passionate desire of sympathy, and ardent pursuit for a wished for object still characterized me."
5983,"I did not wish, however, to lose gas at so early a period of the adventure, and so concluded to ascend for the present."
5984,"I cannot better describe the sensation which oppressed me than by saying that I could with difficulty shake off the belief of my having been acquainted with the being who stood before me, at some epoch very long ago some point of the past even infinitely remote."
5985,"Should any one wish to purchase, or to inquire the price of an article, a bell is at hand, and this is considered amply sufficient."
5986,"I was rather glad to be rid of Müller, for even his silence had unfavourably affected the crew."
5987,"We left M. Valdemar entirely undisturbed until about three o'clock in the morning, when I approached him and found him in precisely the same condition as when Dr. F went away that is to say, he lay in the same position; the pulse was imperceptible; the breathing was gentle scarcely noticeable, unless through the application of a mirror to the lips; the eyes were closed naturally; and the limbs were as rigid and as cold as marble."
5988,"Mansion after mansion claimed my gaze, most of them decrepit and boarded up amidst neglected grounds, but one or two in each street shewing signs of occupancy."
5989,"Man doth not yield himself to the angels, nor unto death utterly, save only through the weakness of his feeble will."
5990,"He departed the same day, and four days afterwards I received a letter from his steward telling me in his name to join him with as little delay as possible."
5991,"The only propelling force it ever exhibited, was the mere impetus acquired from the descent of the inclined plane; and this impetus carried the machine farther when the vanes were at rest, than when they were in motion a fact which sufficiently demonstrates their inutility; and in the absence of the propelling, which was also the sustaining power, the whole fabric would necessarily descend."
5992,"I therefore sought the knife which had been in my pocket, when led into the inquisitorial chamber; but it was gone; my clothes had been exchanged for a wrapper of coarse serge."
5993,"This was done, by fellows who had no pocket handkerchiefs.' Whether this idea is, or is not well founded, we will endeavor to see hereafter; but by 'fellows who have no pocket handkerchiefs' the editor intends the lowest class of ruffians."
5994,"Too weary to ascend, I slept in the shadow of the hill."
5995,"There was something, however, in the appearance of this machine which caused me to regard it more attentively."
5996,He gets up into the body of the Turk just so high as to bring his eyes above the level of the chess board.
5997,"The old Captain's ben dead these sixty years, and there ain't ben a good sized ship out of the place since the Civil War; but just the same the Marshes still keep on buying a few of those native trade things mostly glass and rubber gewgaws, they tell me."
5998,"That night the men of Teloth lodged the stranger in a stable, and in the morning an archon came to him and told him to go to the shop of Athok the cobbler, and be apprenticed to him."
5999,"""Your repentance,"" I said, ""is now superfluous."
6000,"""At twenty minutes before nine o'clock that is to say, a short time prior to my closing up the mouth of the chamber, the mercury attained its limit, or ran down, in the barometer, which, as I mentioned before, was one of an extended construction."
6001,"DURING the autumn of , while on a tour through the extreme southern provinces of France, my route led me within a few miles of a certain Maison de Sante or private mad house, about which I had heard much in Paris from my medical friends."
6002,"What was the land of these wanderers none could tell; but it was seen that they were given to strange prayers, and that they had painted on the sides of their wagons strange figures with human bodies and the heads of cats, hawks, rams, and lions."
6003,"I saw the attic laboratory, the electrical machine, and the unsightly form of Tillinghast opposite me; but of all the space unoccupied by familiar material objects not one particle was vacant."
6004,"One seldom saw them; but a few times a year they sent down little yellow, squint eyed messengers who looked like Scythians to trade with the merchants by means of gestures, and every spring and autumn they held the infamous rites on the peaks, their howlings and altar fires throwing terror into the villages."
6005,"We are all unhappy; but will not that be an additional motive for you, my son, to return and be our comforter?"
6006,The thing must have happened at about three thirty in the afternoon.
6007,"One night, near the closing in of September, she pressed this distressing subject with more than usual emphasis upon my attention."
6008,"Fourthly, That Hans Pfaall himself, the drunken villain, and the three very idle gentlemen styled his creditors, were all seen, no longer than two or three days ago, in a tippling house in the suburbs, having just returned, with money in their pockets, from a trip beyond the sea."
6009,"From my first year until my fifth, he obliged me with very regular floggings."
6010,This was the great obstacle to voyages of length.
6011,"I s'pose it's cheap enough, but I never see more'n two or three people in it nobody but those Innsmouth folks."
6012,"The curator of the historical society there Mr. E. Lapham Peabody was very courteous about assisting me, and expressed unusual interest when I told him I was a grandson of Eliza Orne of Arkham, who was born in and had married James Williamson of Ohio at the age of seventeen."
6013,"The dead were carried out, and the sick brought in, with like indifference; some were screaming with pain, others laughing from the influence of more terrible delirium; some were attended by weeping, despairing relations, others called aloud with thrilling tenderness or reproach on the friends who had deserted them, while the nurses went from bed to bed, incarnate images of despair, neglect, and death."
6014,Could I believe my eyes?
6015,"Liberty, however, had been a useless gift to me, had I not, as I awakened to reason, at the same time awakened to revenge."
6016,"This aroused my curiosity, for I knew of no deep sea organism capable of emitting such luminosity."
6017,"At the epoch of this eventful tale, and periodically, for many years before and after, all England, but more especially the metropolis, resounded with the fearful cry of ""Plague"" The city was in a great measure depopulated and in those horrible regions, in the vicinity of the Thames, where amid the dark, narrow, and filthy lanes and alleys, the Demon of Disease was supposed to have had his nativity, Awe, Terror, and Superstition were alone to be found stalking abroad."
6018,"He looked at the mists from the diadem of Father Neptune, and tried to walk into their white world of mystery along the titan steps of The Causeway."
6019,"""I mean to say,"" continued Dupin, while I merely laughed at his last observations, ""that if the Minister had been no more than a mathematician, the Prefect would have been under no necessity of giving me this check."
6020,"""The health,"" he said, ""attainable by other means than this is scarcely worth the name."""
6021,The grave was carelessly and loosely filled with an exceedingly porous soil; and thus some air was necessarily admitted.
6022,"The individual artificialities of the three latter were local diseases of the Earth, and in their individual overthrows we had seen local remedies applied; but for the infected world at large I could anticipate no regeneration save in death."
6023,"This enemy to the human race had begun early in June to raise its serpent head on the shores of the Nile; parts of Asia, not usually subject to this evil, were infected."
6024,"His eyes, looking past me toward the malodorous sea, were positively starting from his head; while his face was a mask of fear worthy of Greek tragedy."
6025,Nor can I doubt that every detail of this massive product was fashioned from the virgin hillside rock of our planet.
6026,"These periodicals will undoubtedly accept any literary offal you may send them and as undoubtedly promise to pay for it."""
6027,"The trees moved overhead, awakening nature's favourite melody but the melancholy appearance of the choaked paths, and weed grown flower beds, dimmed even this gay summer scene."
6028,"He could not, I reflected, be so weak as not to see that the most intricate and remote recess of his hotel would be as open as his commonest closets to the eyes, to the probes, to the gimlets, and to the microscopes of the Prefect."
6029,"To be a great and virtuous man appeared the highest honour that can befall a sensitive being; to be base and vicious, as many on record have been, appeared the lowest degradation, a condition more abject than that of the blind mole or harmless worm."
6030,"For some reason thought is very horrible to him, and anything which stirs the imagination he flees as a plague."
6031,"I am not given to emotion of any kind, but my amazement was very great when I saw what lay revealed in that electrical glow."
6032,"But, extreme in all things, given up to immediate impressions, he entered with ardour into this new pursuit of pleasure, and followed up the incongruous intimacies occasioned by it without reflection or foresight."
6033,His own mind was constitunially sic bent to a former belief in good rather than in evil and this feeling which must even exhilirate the hopeless ever shone forth in his words.
6034,P. Is not God spirit?
6035,I felt conscious of youth because I remembered so little.
6036,"And when tales fly thick in the grottoes of tritons, and conches in seaweed cities blow wild tunes learned from the Elder Ones, then great eager vapours flock to heaven laden with lore; and Kingsport, nestling uneasy on its lesser cliffs below that awesome hanging sentinel of rock, sees oceanward only a mystic whiteness, as if the cliff's rim were the rim of all earth, and the solemn bells of the buoys tolled free in the aether of faery."
6037,"This, acting on my imagination, had supplied namelessly sinister qualities to the indeterminate face and robed, shambling form beneath it."
6038,Diana had torn the veil which had before kept him in his boyhood: he was become a man and he was surprised how he could ever have joined in the cant words and ideas of his fellow collegiates or how for a moment he had feared the censure of such as these.
6039,Raymond questioned vainly; the mysterious Greek would say no more.
6040,"So the youth answered: ""I am Iranon, and come from Aira, a far city that I recall only dimly but seek to find again."
6041,"He was not materially hurt, a little fresh water soon recovered him."
6042,"It was on the twenty first of February, , that the thing finally occurred."
6043,"When I slept or was absent, the forms of the venerable blind father, the gentle Agatha, and the excellent Felix flitted before me."
6044,"I saw that the decrees of what to me was Fate, were still issuing from those lips."
6045,"Your gentle nature would not permit you to hate your greatest enemy and though I be he, although I have rent happiness from your grasp; though I have passed over your young love and hopes as the angel of destruction, finding beauty and joy, and leaving blight and despair, yet you will forgive me, and with eyes overflowing with tears I thank you; my beloved one, I accept your pardon with a gratitude that will never die, and that will, indeed it will, outlive guilt and remorse."
6046,"I now felt gnawing at my vitals that dark terror which will never leave me till I, too, am at rest; ""accidentally"" or otherwise."
6047,"Her affection for me, her brother, for Adrian and Idris, was subject as it were to the reigning passion of her heart; even her maternal tenderness borrowed half its force from the delight she had in tracing Raymond's features and expression in the infant's countenance."
6048,"Instantly the outside knocking became a violent battering, while keys sounded ominously in the hall doors of the rooms on both sides of me."
6049,"He was not like any other Jermyn who had ever lived, for he was a poet and a dreamer."
6050,"This was immediately done, and we commenced a gradual descent."
6051,"The first intelligence of the murder was brought us by G , in person."
6052,"Perhaps it was like the pulsing of the engines far down in a great liner, as sensed from the deck, yet it was not so mechanical; not so devoid of the element of life and consciousness."
6053,"I saw the Alert, now sold and in commercial use, at Circular Quay in Sydney Cove, but gained nothing from its non committal bulk."
6054,Clerval Beloved friend Even now it delights me to record your words and to dwell on the praise of which you are so eminently deserving.
6055,"Mr. Crab having now paused in his discourse, the latter portion of which I found it impossible to comprehend, I ventured to suggest something about the remuneration which I had been taught to expect for my poem, by an announcement on the cover of the ""Lollipop,"" declaring that it, the ""Lollipop,"" ""insisted upon being permitted to pay exorbitant prices for all accepted contributions; frequently expending more money for a single brief poem than the whole annual cost of the 'HumDrum,' the 'Rowdy Dow,' and the 'Goosetherumfoodle' combined."""
6056,"When darkness came over the earth, I betook myself to bed, although it was for many hours afterward broad daylight all around my immediate situation."
6057,"It was with great difficulty that my wife, a servant, and myself, made our escape from the conflagration."
6058,"or was it a test of my strength of affection, that I should institute no inquiries upon this point?"
6059,"As I was occupied in fixing the boat and arranging the sails, several people crowded towards the spot."
6060,"I had so much of my old heart left, as to be at first grieved by this evident dislike on the part of a creature which had once so loved me."
6061,"The hills rose scarlet and gold to the north of the little town, and the westering sun shone ruddily and mystically on the crude new stone and plaster buildings of the dusty forum and the wooden walls of the circus some distance to the east."
6062,"He was curiously unelated over his impending escape, and almost dreaded the exertion, for his form had the indolent stoutness of early middle age."
6063,"Libo himself, as well as Balbutius, insisted on accompanying the cohort; but great difficulty was suffered in getting a native guide to point out the paths up the mountain."
6064,"The whole visible area partook in different degrees of a tint of pale yellow, and in some portions had acquired a brilliancy even painful to the eye."
6065,"With apparent calmness she discussed with me the probable spot where he might be found, and planned the means we should use for that purpose."
6066,"That object was my uncle the venerable Elihu Whipple who with blackening and decaying features leered and gibbered at me, and reached out dripping claws to rend me in the fury which this horror had brought."
6067,"Soon after the festival she had sent for her child, and then she seemed to have forgotten us."
6068,"Neither Adrian nor myself would have been so anxious, if our own success had depended on our exertions; but we had egged our friend on to the enterprise, and it became us to ensure his triumph."
6069,The talents and courage of Raymond were highly esteemed among the Greeks.
6070,"""That plague of ' must have taken off the best blood in the place."
6071,"""You are all mad every one of you."
6072,"It's fiendish work, Carter, and I doubt if any man without ironclad sensibilities could ever see it through and come up alive and sane."
6073,"Upon my consenting, he thrust it forthwith into his waistcoat pocket, without the parchment in which it had been wrapped, and which I had continued to hold in my hand during his inspection."
6074,In that chamber was I born.
6075,"At the time, Pierre said that this restriction was imposed upon me because my noble birth placed me above association with such plebeian company."
6076,Jealousy and disquiet were unknown among us; nor did a fear or hope of change ever disturb our tranquillity.
6077,"""Hold your tongues, every one of you"" said my host, in a great rage."
6078,"In the meantime, however, I had no notion of being thwarted touching the information I desired."
6079,"An hour later darkness found him in the open fields beyond Hangman's Brook, with the glimmering spring stars shining ahead."
6080,"Madame D. recognized not only the scarf which was found in the thicket, but the dress which was discovered upon the corpse."
6081,"The young man was constantly employed out of doors, and the girl in various laborious occupations within."
6082,"But the nucleus of the destroyer was now upon us; even here in Aidenn, I shudder while I speak."
6083,"Many of the crowded family degenerated, moved across the valley, and merged with the mongrel population which was later to produce the pitiful squatters."
6084,"Oh I must not be mad when I see him; or perhaps it were as well that I should be, my distraction might calm his, and recall him to the endurance of life."
6085,"It is quite certain, however, that he is never to be seen during the exhibition of the Chess Player, although frequently visible just before and just after the exhibition."
6086,"We never come here at night, and it's only because of his will that we keep it this way."
6087,"diamonds, did you say? terrible wretches those Kickapoos we are playing whist, if you please, Mr. Tattle however, this is the age of invention, most certainly the age, one may say the age par excellence speak French?"
6088,"This consideration led Sir George Cayley to think only of adapting a propeller to some machine having of itself an independent power of support in a word, to a balloon; the idea, however, being novel, or original, with Sir George, only so far as regards the mode of its application to practice."
6089,"Awaken him, I entreat you, to some sense of duty."""
6090,The rest is shadowy and monstrous.
6091,"Shortly before, too, he has himself observed that the lens would not render perceptible objects of less than eighteen inches in diameter; but even this, as I have said, is giving the glass by far too great power."
6092,"His impassioned lectures in defence of Villon, , Verlaine, and Oscar Wilde were applied to himself as well, and in the short Indian summer of his glory there was talk of a renewed engagement at a certain cultured home on Park Avenue."
6093,"I finally concluded that my senses were impressed by a certain air of gravity, sadness, or, still more properly, of weariness, which took something from the youth and freshness of the countenance, only to endow it with a seraphic tenderness and majesty, and thus, of course, to my enthusiastic and romantic temperment, with an interest tenfold."
6094,"Away with those blood stained arms, and hasten some of you to bind up these wounds."""
6095,"I acknowledged his kindness in my best manner, and took leave of him at once, with a perfect understanding of the true state of affairs with a full comprehension of the mystery which had troubled me so long."
6096,In the dog days his days have been the days of a dog.
6097,"""And this pleases you?"""
6098,"As I gazed, I perceived that my own brain held the key to these enchanting metamorphoses; for each vista which appeared to me, was the one my changing mind most wished to behold."
6099,Here I knocked off the neck of a bottle which I drew from a long row of its fellows that lay upon the mould.
6100,"It is not known how long Iranon tarried in Oonai, but one day the King brought to the palace some wild whirling dancers from the Liranian desert, and dusky flute players from Drinen in the East, and after that the revellers threw their roses not so much at Iranon as at the dancers and the flute players."
6101,"But, worse than all, neither the cats nor the pigs could put up any longer with the behavior of the little repeaters tied to their tails, and resented it by scampering all over the place, scratching and poking, and squeaking and screeching, and caterwauling and squalling, and flying into the faces, and running under the petticoats of the people, and creating altogether the most abominable din and confusion which it is possible for a reasonable person to conceive."
6102,"September th A scene has just passed of such uncommon interest that, although it is highly probable that these papers may never reach you, yet I cannot forbear recording it."
6103,"A sombre, yet beautiful and peaceful gloom here pervaded all things."
6104,The intensity of the darkness seemed to oppress and stifle me.
6105,They were never heard of again.
6106,"During the early years of their union, the inequality of her temper, and yet unsubdued self will which tarnished her character, had been a slight drawback to the fulness of his sentiment."
6107,This was the drama of my life which I have now depicted upon paper.
6108,I had no horses she wrung her hands.
6109,"Now I ride with the mocking and friendly ghouls on the night wind, and play by day amongst the catacombs of Nephren Ka in the sealed and unknown valley of Hadoth by the Nile."
6110,"To be handled with care."""
6111,After a long pause of reflection I concluded that the justice due both to him and my fellow creatures demanded of me that I should comply with his request.
6112,"Less inexplicable was his fitting up of another downstairs room for his new grandson a room which several callers saw, though no one was ever admitted to the closely boarded upper story."
6113,"God made him to have dominion over the works of his hands, and put all things under his feet."""
6114,"I would have soothed I would have reasoned; but, in the intensity of her wild desire for life, for life but for life solace and reason were the uttermost folly."
6115,"There were several side dishes on the table, containing what appeared to be the ordinary French rabbit a very delicious morceau, which I can recommend."
6116,"The high backed settle faced the row of curtained windows at the left, and seemed to be occupied, though I was not sure."
6117,"In vain I shewed him, that when winter came, the cold would dissipate the pestilential air, and restore courage to the Greeks."
6118,The few weeks that I spent in London were the most miserable of my life: a great city is a frightful habitation to one sorrowing.
6119,"Let not England be so far disgraced, as to have it imagined that it can be without nobles, nature's true nobility, who bear their patent in their mien, who are from their cradle elevated above the rest of their species, because they are better than the rest."
6120,I looked toward Templeton.
6121,"I am almost ashamed to own yes, even in this felon's cell, I am almost ashamed to own that the terror and horror with which the animal inspired me, had been heightened by one of the merest chimaeras it would be possible to conceive."
6122,"The place was dreadfully dreary and damp, and I became troubled with ennui."
6123,"There was nothing said or heard about the matter in the Rue Pavée St. Andrée, that reached even the occupants of the same building."
6124,Snow would have hid the rails in any case.
6125,"In an instant afterward he stood erect, confronting Hermann; and so total an alteration of countenance in so short a period I certainly never saw before."
6126,"My father was expected at noon but when I wished to return to meet him I found that I had lost my way: it seemed that in every attempt to find it I only became more involved in the intracacies of the woods, and the trees hid all trace by which I might be guided."
6127,"The traces of light wheels were evident; and although the tall shrubberies and overgrown undergrowth met overhead, there was no obstruction whatever below, even to the passage of a Virginian mountain wagon the most aspiring vehicle, I take it, of its kind."
6128,"The door leading from the front room into the passage was locked, with the key on the inside."
6129,"I had already been out many hours and felt the torment of a burning thirst, a prelude to my other sufferings."
6130,"Somehow I doubt if it was stolen by mortal hands, for many strange things were taught me in India."
6131,"Seeing, however, a man, the precise counterpart of the felon, standing upright in the cart before their eyes, they were of so they expressed themselves, and, having communicated this opinion to one another, they took each a dram, and then knocked me down with the butt ends of their muskets."
6132,"He fell on a narrow hill street leading up from an ancient waterfront swarming with foreign mongrels, after a careless push from a negro sailor."
6133,"On this occasion he spoke of the perils to be faced, and exhorted the men of Olathoë, bravest of the Lomarians, to sustain the traditions of their ancestors, who when forced to move southward from Zobna before the advance of the great ice sheet even as our descendants must some day flee from the land of Lomar, valiantly and victoriously swept aside the hairy, long armed, cannibal Gnophkehs that stood in their way."
6134,"For two hours my companion, who was a musical fanatico, gave his undivided attention to the stage; and, in the meantime, I amused myself by observing the audience, which consisted, in chief part, of the very elite of the city."
6135,"CHAPTER V. WHEN we arrived at Windsor, I found that Raymond and Perdita had departed for the continent."
6136,"I felt as if I had committed some great crime, the consciousness of which haunted me."
6137,"But of late, it is a rare thing that I sleep soundly at night."
6138,"We now take it for our model upon all themes, and are getting into rapid notice accordingly."
6139,"If we cannot comprehend God in his visible works, how then in his inconceivable thoughts, that call the works into being?"
6140,"M. Beauvais did not return that night, but sent word to Madame Rogêt, at seven o'clock, on Wednesday evening, that an investigation was still in progress respecting her daughter."
6141,He is frequently absent from home all night.
6142,It consists in short sentences.
6143,"When they spoke of his probable death and certain captivity, tears streamed from their eyes; even as the women of Syria sorrowed for Adonis, did the wives and mothers of Greece lament our English Raymond Athens was a city of mourning."
6144,"On the morning of the third day he informed me that he had determined to go to Yorkshire first alone, and that I should follow him in a fortnight unless I heard any thing from him in the mean time that should contradict this command."
6145,"But I do not fear him now, for I suspect that he has known horrors beyond my ken."
6146,"The point of view from which I first saw the valley, was not altogether, although it was nearly, the best point from which to survey the house."
6147,"We still ascended, and now only one step remained."
6148,"The gigantic magnitude and the immediately available nature of the sum, dazzled and bewildered all who thought upon the topic."
6149,"Night also closed around; and when I could hardly see the dark mountains, I felt still more gloomily."
6150,"It was a place fitted for such a work, being hardly more than a rock whose high sides were continually beaten upon by the waves."
6151,"You appeared as the deity of a lovely region, the ministering Angel of a Paradise to which of all human kind you admitted only me."
6152,"Who was better framed than this highly gifted youth to love and be beloved, and to reap unalienable joy from an unblamed passion?"
6153,You may make a good deal of that little fact if properly worked.
6154,"That material injury to our globe or to its inhabitants would result from the apprehended contact, was an opinion which hourly lost ground among the wise; and the wise were now freely permitted to rule the reason and the fancy of the crowd."
6155,"To lighten the depression of his spirits, the Baron hurried into the open air."
6156,Too many folks missin' too much wild preachin' at meetin' of a Sunday too much talk abaout that reef.
6157,"About a month after the loss of the ""Independence,"" I happened to meet Captain Hardy in Broadway."
6158,"The artist had engaged passage for himself, wife, two sisters and a servant."
6159,Curtis Whateley was only just regaining consciousness when the Arkham men came slowly down the mountain in the beams of a sunlight once more brilliant and untainted.
6160,"The adventurer, in digging the earth, happens to discover a peculiar metal for which the moon has a strong attraction, and straightway constructs of it a box, which, when cast loose from its terrestrial fastenings, flies with him, forthwith, to the satellite."
6161,By a strange narrowness of ideas he viewed all the world in connexion only as it was or was not related to his little society.
6162,"They parted; and in a smile of peculiar meaning, the teeth of the changed Berenice disclosed themselves slowly to my view."
6163,"Gilman sat in a daze all the afternoon, and Elwood who had meanwhile seen the papers and formed terrible conjectures from them found him thus when he came home."
6164,"""I am not more sure that I breathe than I am that the letter is not at the Hotel."""
6165,"I must stay till the next day; or come back, after having reported the present state of things to the general."
6166,"Ise gittin to be skeered, I tell you."
6167,I started up and beheld a radiant form rise from among the trees.
6168,"You know, I presume, that laborers have for some months been employed in preparing the ground for a new fountain at Paradise, the Emperor's principal pleasure garden."
6169,"For a time music was able to satisfy the cravings of her mental hunger, and her melancholy thoughts renewed themselves in each change of key, and varied with every alteration in the strain."
6170,"On our arrival in London, we found that the aged Countess of Windsor was residing with her son in the palace of the Protectorate; we repaired to our accustomed abode near Hyde Park."
6171,"By the utter simplicity, by the nakedness of his designs, he arrested and overawed attention."
6172,"Yet I own, that considering the task which Raymond had taken on himself as Protector of England, and the cares to which it became him to attend, I was exceedingly provoked to observe the worthless fellows on whom his time was wasted, and the jovial if not drunken spirit which seemed on the point of robbing him of his better self."
6173,"On an improvised dissecting table in the old farmhouse, by the light of a powerful acetylene lamp, the specimen was not very spectral looking."
6174,"'Sir' said he, gasping for breath, 'I can't never set up nothing without no o's.' 'What do you mean by that?' growled the foreman, who was in a very ill humor at being kept so late."
6175,"Felix rejected his offers with contempt, yet when he saw the lovely Safie, who was allowed to visit her father and who by her gestures expressed her lively gratitude, the youth could not help owning to his own mind that the captive possessed a treasure which would fully reward his toil and hazard."
6176,"As I rapidly made the mesmeric passes, amid ejaculations of ""dead dead"" absolutely bursting from the tongue and not from the lips of the sufferer, his whole frame at once within the space of a single minute, or even less, shrunk crumbled absolutely rotted away beneath my hands."
6177,"When it became noon, and the sun rose higher, I lay down on the grass and was overpowered by a deep sleep."
6178,"A good hearted old Irish nurse whom I shall not forget in my will took me up one day by the heels, when I was making more noise than was necessary, and swinging me round two or knocked my head into a cocked hat against the bedpost."
6179,"The truth is, I labored under the disadvantage of having no monkey and American streets are so muddy, and a Democratic rabble is so obstrusive, and so full of demnition mischievous little boys."
6180,"The soul is expanded and drinks in quiet, a lulling medecine to me it was as the sight of the lovely water snakes to the bewitched mariner in loving and blessing Nature I unawares, called down a blessing on my own soul."
6181,He appeared at one time a mere scion of the evil principle and at another as all that can be conceived of noble and godlike.
6182,"At such times solemn harmonies or spirit stirring airs gave wings to my lagging thoughts, permitting them, methought, to penetrate the last veil of nature and her God, and to display the highest beauty in visible expression to the understandings of men."
6183,"It was a very foolish hysteria, for the boy had often run away before; but Italian peasants are exceedingly superstitious, and this woman seemed as much harassed by omens as by facts."
6184,"The presence of Safie diffused happiness among its inhabitants, and I also found that a greater degree of plenty reigned there."
6185,"The effect of this volume had not left me, and I felt a certain hesitancy in speaking of it; but curiosity overmastered all the vague fears which had steadily accumulated since my first glimpse of the house."
6186,"He assured me one day, when I asked him for a new copy of Horace, that the translation of ""ta nascitur non fit"" was ""a nasty poet for nothing fit"" a remark which I took in high dudgeon."
6187,"d n if I do"" ""If you are afraid, Jup, a great big negro like you, to take hold of a harmless little dead beetle, why you can carry it up by this string but, if you do not take it up with you in some way, I shall be under the necessity of breaking your head with this shovel."""
6188,"What all my pretty chickens, and their dam, At one fell swoop A pang of tameless grief wrenched every heart, a burst of despair was echoed from every lip."
6189,"Whatever had burst loose upon the world had assuredly gone down into the great sinister ravine; for all the trees on the banks were bent and broken, and a great avenue had been gouged in the precipice hanging underbrush."
6190,"When I had completed the drawing I gave it to you, and observed you narrowly until you returned it."
6191,"I passed a whole month in her chamber nursing her, but her disease was mortal and she died, leaving me for some time inconsolable, Death is so dreadful to the living; the chains of habit are so strong even when affection does not link them that the heart must be agonized when they break."
6192,Does it now only exist in my memory?
6193,Let me term it a mental pendulous pulsation.
6194,"generally stopped at the Mansion House in Benefit Street the renamed Golden Ball Inn whose roof has sheltered Washington, Jefferson, and Lafayette and his favourite walk led northward along the same street to Mrs. Whitman's home and the neighbouring hillside churchyard of St. John's, whose hidden expanse of eighteenth century gravestones had for him a peculiar fascination."
6195,"Put back the slab and run there's nothing else you or anyone can do now"" The tone changed again, this time acquiring a softer quality, as of hopeless resignation."
6196,"""LA MUSIQUE,"" says Marmontel, in those ""Contes Moraux"" which in all our translations, we have insisted upon calling ""Moral Tales,"" as if in mockery of their spirit ""la musique est le seul des talents qui jouissent de lui meme; tous les autres veulent des temoins."""
6197,So far I have not shot myself as my uncle Douglas did.
6198,"The raising of ghosts or devils was a promise liberally accorded by my favourite authors, the fulfilment of which I most eagerly sought; and if my incantations were always unsuccessful, I attributed the failure rather to my own inexperience and mistake than to a want of skill or fidelity in my instructors."
6199,It was whispered that he had died of the plague.
6200,You'd better thank heaven it didn't go further. . . .
6201,What struggle could have taken place what struggle so violent and so enduring as to have left its 'traces' in all directions between a weak and defenceless girl and the gang of ruffians imagined?
6202,"And when I saw on the dim litten moor a wide nebulous shadow sweeping from mound to mound, I shut my eyes and threw myself face down upon the ground."
6203,"The pang is over, his sufferings are at an end for ever."
6204,"He was induced to look with extreme disapprobation, and at last with distaste, on my father's imprudence and follies."
6205,"The quiet waters had closed placidly over their victim; and, although my own gondola was the only one in sight, many a stout swimmer, already in the stream, was seeking in vain upon the surface, the treasure which was to be found, alas only within the abyss."
6206,"""Baconian,"" you must know, was an adjective invented as equivalent to Hog ian and more euphonious and dignified."
6207,"Of the cattle, only a quarter could be found and identified."
6208,"Day, hateful to me, dawned; I retreated to my lodgings I threw myself on a couch I slept was it sleep?"
6209,"My cognizance of the pit had become known to the inquisitorial agents the pit whose horrors had been destined for so bold a recusant as myself the pit, typical of hell, and regarded by rumor as the Ultima Thule of all their punishments."
6210,"But the archon was sullen and did not understand, and rebuked the stranger."
6211,"This was, to be sure, a singular recontre, for I had not believed it possible that a cloud of this nature could be sustained at so great an elevation."
6212,"""I presume you expected to find a letter between the stamp and the signature."""
6213,"With a proper caution and perseverance we shall infallibly trace this boat; for not only can the bargeman who picked it up identify it, but the rudder is at hand."
6214,It was that of General Lasalle.
6215,"For, to speak the truth, until of late years, that the heads of all the people have been set agog with politics, no better business than my own could an honest citizen of Rotterdam either desire or deserve."
6216,"Glancing to and fro, in a thousand reflections, from curtains which rolled from their cornices like cataracts of molten silver, the beams of natural glory mingled at length fitfully with the artificial light, and lay weltering in subdued masses upon a carpet of rich, liquid looking cloth of Chili gold."
6217,"The ancient books taken from Whateley's quarters, while absorbingly interesting and in several cases promising to open up new and terrible lines of research among philosophers and men of science, were of no assistance whatever in this matter."
6218,"Still, no one durst complain to the sinister couple; even when little Atal, the innkeeper's son, vowed that he had at twilight seen all the cats of Ulthar in that accursed yard under the trees, pacing very slowly and solemnly in a circle around the cottage, two abreast, as if in performance of some unheard of rite of beasts."
6219,"The ground on which the battle was fought, was a level plain so level, that from the tumuli you saw the waving line of mountains on the wide stretched horizon; yet the intervening space was unvaried by the least irregularity, save such undulations as resembled the waves of the sea."
6220,"For the sisters, however, I could make no excuse."
6221,"At night the subtle stirring of the black city outside, the sinister scurrying of rats in the wormy partitions, and the creaking of hidden timbers in the centuried house, were enough to give him a sense of strident pandemonium."
6222,"The creaking of the masts, the clang of the wheels, the tramp above, all persuaded her that she was already far from the shores of Greece."
6223,"Jupiter, grinning from ear to ear, bustled about to prepare some marsh hens for supper."
6224,"True, she looked forward to another life; true, the burning spirit of love seemed to her unextinguishable throughout eternity."
6225,The shutters of the front windows were seldom opened.
6226,It was something I found in my coat the next morning.
6227,"But now Zadok was shaking me, and I turned back to watch the melting of that fear frozen face into a chaos of twitching eyelids and mumbling gums."
6228,"Instead, they jumped violently at the terrific report which seemed to rend the hills; the deafening, cataclysmic peal whose source, be it inner earth or sky, no hearer was ever able to place."
6229,"About five in the morning I discovered my lovely boy, whom the night before I had seen blooming and active in health, stretched on the grass livid and motionless; the print of the murder's finger was on his neck."
6230,"Before the battle of Rodosto I was full of hope and spirit; to conquer there, and afterwards to take Constantinople, was the hope, the bourne, the fulfilment of my ambition."
6231,"In the summer and autumn of I dwelt in the drear expanses of the Cactus Mountains, employed as a common labourer at the celebrated Norton Mine; whose discovery by an aged prospector some years before had turned the surrounding region from a nearly unpeopled waste to a seething cauldron of sordid life."
6232,"I suppose one should start in the cold December of , when the ground froze and the cemetery delvers found they could dig no more graves till spring."
6233,"Now you have the experience of all that I can give, the heart's devotion, taintless love, and unhesitating subjection to you."
6234,"A very strange coincidence, indeed Just what Doctor Dubble L. Dee would denominate an extraordinary concurrence of events."
6235,"There was also that Arkham professor's body which had done cannibal things before it had been captured and thrust unidentified into a madhouse cell at Sefton, where it beat the walls for sixteen years."
6236,"A certain period elapses, and some unseen mysterious principle again sets in motion the magic pinions and the wizard wheels."
6237,"The writing accompanying this oddity was, aside from a stack of press cuttings, in Professor Angell's most recent hand; and made no pretence to literary style."
6238,"Well, young fellow, you mustn't take too much stock in what people around here say."
6239,"He licked the nose of the bottle and slipped it into his pocket, then beginning to nod and whisper softly to himself."
6240,"Again I called down, ""Warren, are you there?"", and in answer heard the thing which has brought this cloud over my mind."
6241,"I was harassed and ill, resolved not to give up my post, yet doubting in what way I should assert it; when Adrian called me, and clasping my hand, bade me not leave him."
6242,"There entered three men, who introduced themselves, with perfect suavity, as officers of the police."
6243,"I shall go to those poles when the earth is cleared off, if I can't break through with the Dho Hna formula when I commit it."
6244,"Hereupon his Grace rubbed his eyes, yawned, shrugged his shoulders, reflected."
6245,"Let us go even where you will; the love that accompanies us will prevent our regrets."""
6246,"After all the agitation and sorrow I had endured in Greece, I sought Windsor, as the storm driven bird does the nest in which it may fold its wings in tranquillity."
6247,After we had spent a few weeks in London his attentions towards me became marked and his visits more frequent.
6248,"My first impulse on awaking was to communicate all my fears and observations to Denys Barry, but as I saw the sunlight glowing through the latticed east window I became sure that there was no reality in what I thought I had seen."
6249,"Everything he saw was unspeakably menacing and horrible; and whenever one of the organic entities appeared by its motions to be noticing him, he felt a stark, hideous fright which generally jolted him awake."
6250,It were no mighty leap methinks from Calais to Dover.
6251,Then we have accurate rules.
6252,"What more would you have?"" ""But, sir, if you please, I don't remember that you paid me for the tobacco."""
6253,"He who sat near Raymond was telling a story, which convulsed the rest with laughter."
6254,"While I watched the tempest, so beautiful yet terrific, I wandered on with a hasty step."
6255,"At first, as he spoke, there was a slight rushing movement of this group in the direction of the intruder, who at the moment was also near at hand, and now, with deliberate and stately step, made closer approach to the speaker."
6256,"The general impression, so far as we were enabled to glean it from the newspapers, seemed to be, that Marie had been the victim of a gang of desperadoes that by these she had been borne across the river, maltreated and murdered."
6257,"""Pardon me,"" it said, ""for the uneasiness I have unavoidably given you: but while in that unhappy island, where every thing breathes her spirit whom I have lost for ever, a spell held me."
6258,"Sometimes it made me weep; and at other times I repeated with transport those words, ""One day I may claim her at your hands."""
6259,"She saw therefore no escape from dire penury: perpetual care, joined to sorrow for the loss of the wondrous being, whom she continued to contemplate with ardent admiration, hard labour, and naturally delicate health, at length released her from the sad continuity of want and misery."
6260,This book had a far different effect upon me from the Sorrows of Werter.
6261,"I have before said, or should have said, that Wilson was not, in the most remote degree, connected with my family."
6262,"Le Mercurie Tuesday Morning, June ."
6263,"Valdemar,"" I said, ""are you asleep?"""
6264,"This old man dwells all alone in a very ancient house on Water Street near the sea, and is reputed to be both exceedingly rich and exceedingly feeble; which forms a situation very attractive to men of the profession of Messrs. Ricci, Czanek, and Silva, for that profession was nothing less dignified than robbery."
6265,"He was an excellent ""whip,"" however; and having doffed his cassock to put on a great coat, he drove the hack which conveyed the ""happy couple"" out of town."
6266,"Man cannot repose, and his restless aspirations will now bring forth good instead of evil."
6267,"No sooner had I done this, than, with a bright smile irradiating all his features, he fell back upon his pillow and expired."
6268,"It was now the representation of an object that I shudder to name and for this, above all, I loathed, and dreaded, and would have rid myself of the monster had I dared it was now, I say, the image of a hideous of a ghastly thing of the GALLOWS oh, mournful and terrible engine of Horror and of Crime of Agony and of Death And now was I indeed wretched beyond the wretchedness of mere Humanity."
6269,"I closed the window, and the semblance of the whole nail was again perfect."
6270,"""Dvelf"" they replied perfectly satisfied, and dropping their voices."
6271,"I am going to unexplored regions, to ""the land of mist and snow,"" but I shall kill no albatross; therefore do not be alarmed for my safety or if I should come back to you as worn and woeful as the ""Ancient Mariner."""
6272,When the crowd was gone I saw the grave bearded man who had brought me to this place standing alone with a lantern.
6273,"His manner at these moments was frigid and abstract; his eyes were vacant in expression; while his voice, usually a rich tenor, rose into a treble which would have sounded petulantly but for the deliberateness and entire distinctness of the enunciation."
6274,"And I would tell myself that the realm beyond the wall was not more lasting merely, but more lovely and radiant as well."
6275,"A postscript, however, mentioned that Adolphe Le Bon had been arrested and imprisoned although nothing appeared to criminate him, beyond the facts already detailed."
6276,"""I thank you, Walton,"" he said, ""for your kind intentions towards so miserable a wretch; but when you speak of new ties and fresh affections, think you that any can replace those who are gone?"
6277,"The frame was oval, richly gilded and filigreed in Moresque."
6278,Mr. Kirwin charged himself with every care of collecting witnesses and arranging my defence.
6279,"I observed that the outlines of these monstrosities were sufficiently distinct, but that the colors seemed faded and blurred, as if from the effects of a damp atmosphere."
6280,This verbal jumble was the key to the recollection which excited and disturbed Professor Angell.
6281,"I tell you distinctly that I am going to punish you for all your impertinences by being as tedious, as discursive, as incoherent and as unsatisfactory as possible."
6282,Could he allude to an object on whom I dared not even think?
6283,"Our means of receiving impressions are absurdly few, and our notions of surrounding objects infinitely narrow."
6284,"Seeing a possible means of avoiding the dangerous jump, I yanked at the hangings and brought them down, pole and all; then quickly hooking two of the rings in the shutter catch and flinging the drapery outside."
6285,"""The expression of your sentiments of this subject, my dear Victor, gives me more pleasure than I have for some time experienced."
6286,"Well, Eliot, there wasn't much for me to do after that harangue but to keep myself from running instead of walking for the first vacant cab we could sight."
6287,"Yet this should have been the case, and in an equal degree as at the surface of the earth, the actual gravity of bodies at either planet supposed in the ratio of the atmospheric condensation."
6288,"This peculiarity of character grew with my growth, and in my manhood, I derived from it one of my principal sources of pleasure."
6289,"On you it rests, whether I quit forever the neighbourhood of man and lead a harmless life, or become the scourge of your fellow creatures and the author of your own speedy ruin."""
6290,This fact confirmed my preconceived idea.
6291,"Since that period, whenever the world's circumstance has not imperiously called me away, or the temper of my mind impeded such study, I have been employed in deciphering these sacred remains."
6292,"""He is coming"" said somebody farther still."
6293,"The man did not accost me, so I hastened home in an effort to overhear what he might report to my careworn father."
6294,"It will be perceived, no doubt, from what I have already said, that the Baron was one of those human anomalies now and then to be found, who make the science of mystification the study and the business of their lives."
6295,"They retired and I turned towards my friend, but he was sunk in languor and almost deprived of life."
6296,But in the detail which he gave you of them he could not sum up the hours and months of misery which I endured wasting in impotent passions.
6297,This fact was unknown to the travelling companion who introduced me.
6298,Your curiosity makes you irresponsible.
6299,"He sent for medical assistance; the hours passed, spun by suspense into ages; the darkness of the long autumnal night yielded to day, before her life was secure."
6300,But I was baffled in every attempt I made for this purpose.
6301,"The whole attic story was choked with debris from above, but no one took the trouble to touch the mess before the inevitable razing of the decrepit structure."
6302,"He had a lot of talk about diet, and said Pickman must be abnormal and eccentric to the last degree."
6303,It might mean the end of all our local work and perhaps prison for both West and me.
6304,"Several extensive perforations existed; and, at one point, permanent adhesion to the ribs had taken place."
6305,"Beyond these, the critical art can but suggest."
6306,"But in the draping of the apartment lay, alas the chief phantasy of all."
6307,"Only assure me that your love and faith towards me have never been violated; and suspicion, and doubt, and jealousy will at once be dispersed."
6308,"With whimpering insistence the squatters told tales of a daemon which seized lone wayfarers after dark, either carrying them off or leaving them in a frightful state of gnawed dismemberment; while sometimes they whispered of blood trails toward the distant mansion."
6309,"There was some of it in Wilbur Whateley himself enough to make a devil and a precocious monster of him, and to make his passing out a pretty terrible sight."
6310,"""The old man, leaning on his son, walked each day at noon, when it did not rain, as I found it was called when the heavens poured forth its waters."
6311,"It seemed strange that old Gregory, at least, should desert his master without telling as tried a friend as I."
6312,"Not in the calm air or weltering ocean; not in the woods or fertile fields, nor among the birds that made the woods resonant with song, nor the animals that in the midst of plenty basked in the sunshine."
6313,"At the same moment there came a sound resembling the quick opening, and as rapid closing of a door overhead, while a faint gleam of light flashed suddenly through the gloom, and as suddenly faded away."
6314,"Saw him sitting in a side box, in the second tier, between a fat lady and a lean one."
6315,"A selfish pursuit had cramped and narrowed me, until your gentleness and affection warmed and opened my senses; I became the same happy creature who, a few years ago, loved and beloved by all, had no sorrow or care."
6316,We arrived at the town of in a little more than half an hour.
6317,"""Glad to know you, Sheehan,"" said Trever in a quiet, well bred tone."
6318,"If this man could not be restored to life, no one would know of our experiment."
6319,"Either the memory of past bliss is the anguish of to day, or the agonies which are, have their origin in the ecstasies which might have been."
6320,"But as it now began to strike, nobody had any time to attend to his manoeuvres, for they had all to count the strokes of the bell as it sounded."
6321,"Besides, the streets were loathsomely dark."
6322,"He saw that most of them, in common with their cast off priestcraft, could not escape from the delusion that life has a meaning apart from that which men dream into it; and could not lay aside the crude notion of ethics and obligations beyond those of beauty, even when all Nature shrieked of its unconsciousness and impersonal unmorality in the light of their scientific discoveries."
6323,"He returned home, full of mingled feelings, of pain excited by Evadne's wretchedness, and pleasure at the prospect of relieving it."
6324,"When my hand touched his ear I shuddered, though I knew not why knew not why till I felt of the still face; the ice cold, stiffened, unbreathing face whose glassy eyes bulged uselessly into the void."
6325,"And can I who for many years was fed by tears, and nourished under the dew of grief, can I pause to relate a tale of woe and death?"
6326,Dunwich is indeed ridiculously old older by far than any of the communities within thirty miles of it.
6327,But why shall I say more?
6328,"""It is this,"" I answered, producing a trowel from beneath the folds of my roquelaire."
6329,He comforted her; he instilled into her his own hopes and desires; and soon her countenance beamed with sympathy.
6330,"I pointed out that the barbarous Vascones were at best turbulent and uncertain, so that skirmishes with them were inevitable sooner or later whichever course we might take; that they had not in the past proved dangerous adversaries to our legions, and that it would ill become the representatives of the Roman People to suffer barbarians to interfere with a course which the justice and prestige of the Republic demanded."
6331,"Soon we returned to shore, and I endeavoured to obviate the impression made on the child's mind, by treating Raymond's fears lightly."
6332,I believed in her innocence; I knew it.
6333,"It was that of an ancient Puritan interior a heavily beamed room with lattice windows, a settle, and clumsy seventeenth century furniture, with the family sitting about while the father read from the Scriptures."
6334,"I must find Bennett and Tobey, if they lived . . ."
6335,"For my part, I cannot conceive upon what data they have founded such an accusation."
6336,"The introduction of mirrors among the machinery could not have been intended to influence, in any degree, the machinery itself."
6337,"I am twenty two, you say, granted: indeed, you may as well call me, at once, twenty three."
6338,It was the pit the maelstrom the ultimate abomination.
6339,"He started to his feet and grasped his cudgel, but the next moment he fell back into his seat, trembling violently, and with the countenance of death itself."
6340,"I replied that I had entire confidence in his superior delicacy of feeling, and would abide by what he proposed."
6341,It was the skeleton of his wife in her yet unmoulded shroud.
6342,You know that the beginning is GOD.
6343,"They dressed its wound and carted it to the asylum at Sefton, where it beat its head against the walls of a padded cell for sixteen years until the recent mishap, when it escaped under circumstances that few like to mention."
6344,"Accordingly I had sent a slave a nimble little Greek called Antipater to the proconsul with letters, and Scribonius had heeded my plea and ordered Balbutius to send his fifth cohort, under Asellius, to Pompelo; entering the hills at dusk on the eve of November's Kalends and stamping out whatever nameless orgies he might find bringing such prisoners as he might take to Tarraco for the next proprætor's court."
6345,"The passions which had for centuries distinguished our race, came thronging with the fancies for which they had been equally noted, and together breathed a delirious bliss over the Valley of the Many Colored Grass."
6346,"Having related all that was necessary for the fullest judicial conviction, I fell prostrate in a swoon."
6347,"It was thus that he spoke of the object of my visit, of his earnest desire to see me, and of the solace he expected me to afford him."
6348,"Chapter On my return, I found the following letter from my father: ""My dear Victor, ""You have probably waited impatiently for a letter to fix the date of your return to us; and I was at first tempted to write only a few lines, merely mentioning the day on which I should expect you."
6349,"His stud of beautiful horses, his arms of costly workmanship, the praise that attended him, the adoration, ready servitor, high place and high esteem, I considered them as forcibly wrenched from me, and envied them all with novel and tormenting bitterness."
6350,"From Dunedin the Alert and her noisome crew had darted eagerly forth as if imperiously summoned, and on the other side of the earth poets and artists had begun to dream of a strange, dank Cyclopean city whilst a young sculptor had moulded in his sleep the form of the dreaded Cthulhu."
6351,The offspring of the deepest love I displayed from my earliest years the greatest sensibility of disposition.
6352,Then the trail led to the couch and ended unutterably.
6353,"Several other men were examined concerning my landing, and they agreed that, with the strong north wind that had arisen during the night, it was very probable that I had beaten about for many hours and had been obliged to return nearly to the same spot from which I had departed."
6354,"Besides all this, the lawn's velvet was exquisitely spotted with sheep a considerable flock of which roamed about the vale, in company with three tamed deer, and a vast number of brilliantly plumed ducks."
6355,Was it my own excited imagination or the misty influence of the atmosphere or the uncertain twilight of the chamber or the gray draperies which fell around her figure that caused in it so vacillating and indistinct an outline?
6356,"After a hurried and vain endeavor to thrust it in a drawer, she was forced to place it, open as it was, upon a table."
6357,"If for a moment he shewed curiosity, my eyes fell, my voice died away and my evident suffering made him quickly endeavour to banish the ideas he had awakened; yet he for ever mingled consolation in his talk, and tried to soften my despair by demonstrations of deep sympathy and compassion."
6358,"You tried to stop me; you discouraged me when I needed every drop of encouragement I could get; you were afraid of the cosmic truth, you damned coward, but now I've got you What swept up the servants?"
6359,We even felt an unusual elasticity of frame and vivacity of mind.
6360,"I lay at the bottom of the boat, and as I gazed on the cloudless blue sky, I seemed to drink in a tranquillity to which I had long been a stranger."
6361,I could be found in no state of mind which I would not willingly have exchanged for nothingness.
6362,"A letter, however, had lately reached me in a distant part of the country a letter from him which, in its wildly importunate nature, had admitted of no other than a personal reply."
6363,"Then unexpectedly my hands came upon a doorway, where hung a portal of stone, rough with strange chiselling."
6364,"The ascent is precipitous, but the path is cut into continual and short windings, which enable you to surmount the perpendicularity of the mountain."
6365,"""And now, with the world before me, whither should I bend my steps?"
6366,"In rather a too philosophical and connected a strain, perhaps, I have given an account of the conclusions I had come to concerning them in my early years."
6367,"Afterward I waited in the black hallway, shivering with cold and fear, till I heard the poor musician's feeble effort to rise from the floor by the aid of a chair."
6368,"At nine, every morning, I called upon that individual for the clothes of the day."
6369,"There I suffered it to remain for many minutes, while I strove to imagine where and what I could be."
6370,"His skin, nearly black, his matted hair and bristly beard, were signs of a long protracted misery."
6371,"As grief might change Constance so would deceit change me untill in heaven you would say, ""This is not my child"" My father, to be happy both now and when again we meet I must fly from all this life which is mockery to one like me."
6372,I never heard of Innsmouth till the day before I saw it for the first and so far last time.
6373,"And a brute beast whose fellow I had contemptuously destroyed a brute beast to work out for me for me a man, fashioned in the image of the High God so much of insufferable wo Alas neither by day nor by night knew I the blessing of Rest any more During the former the creature left me no moment alone; and, in the latter, I started, hourly, from dreams of unutterable fear, to find the hot breath of the thing upon my face, and its vast weight an incarnate Night Mare that I had no power to shake off incumbent eternally upon my heart Beneath the pressure of torments such as these, the feeble remnant of the good within me succumbed."
6374,"There lives no man who at some period has not been tormented, for example, by an earnest desire to tantalize a listener by circumlocution."
6375,"And here, in the prison house which has few secrets to disclose, there rolled away days and weeks and months; and the soul watched narrowly each second as it flew, and, without effort, took record of its flight without effort and without object."
6376,At length he opened his eyes; he breathed with difficulty and was unable to speak.
6377,"The sound of waterfalls became more and more distinct, and presently I saw a fairly deep river gorge ahead, spanned by a wide, iron railed highway bridge beyond which a large square opened out."
6378,"And touching that mildew upon which the editor of Le Soleil so pertinaciously insists, that he employs the word no less than three times in the brief paragraph just quoted, is he really unaware of the nature of this mildew?"
6379,"Some of the Whateleys and Bishops still send their eldest sons to Harvard and Miskatonic, though those sons seldom return to the mouldering gambrel roofs under which they and their ancestors were born."
6380,"It was there, however, no longer; and breathing with greater freedom, I turned my glances to the pallid and rigid figure upon the bed."
6381,"But if you have no oven or big bell, at hand, and if you cannot conveniently tumble out of a balloon, or be swallowed up in an earthquake, or get stuck fast in a chimney, you will have to be contented with simply imagining some similar misadventure."
6382,"After a pause, during which the flock of whippoorwills outside adjusted their cries to the altered tempo while some indications of the strange hill noises came from afar off, he added another sentence or two."
6383,"The star shaped flowers shrank into the stems of the trees, and appeared no more."
6384,"We will call them guesses then, and speak of them as such."
6385,"Having crossed to the western sidewalk I rounded the nearest corner into Bates Street, where I kept close to the buildings on the southern side."
6386,"Being ordered peremptorily to turn back, Capt."
6387,The strange things of the past which I learnt during those nocturnal meetings with the dead he dismisses as the fruits of my lifelong and omnivorous browsing amongst the ancient volumes of the family library.
6388,"And the trees still sheltered singing birds, and at evening the moon and stars looked down upon dewy blossoms in the walled rose gardens."
6389,"""I had rather be with you,"" he said, ""in your solitary rambles, than with these Scotch people, whom I do not know; hasten, then, my dear friend, to return, that I may again feel myself somewhat at home, which I cannot do in your absence."""
6390,"Well, be it so; a deadly struggle would then assuredly take place, in which if he were victorious I should be at peace and his power over me be at an end."
6391,"Hence there is less distinction between the several classes of its inhabitants; and the lower orders, being neither so poor nor so despised, their manners are more refined and moral."
6392,"The force of this idea was much weakened, however, by the necessity which it involved of considering the disturbances abnormal and unadapted to any purpose."
6393,"All fools are poets; this the Prefect feels; and he is merely guilty of a non distributio medii in thence inferring that all poets are fools."""
6394,Idris had disappeared.
6395,"It Wits of course be understood that when a move is made at his own table, by the antagonist, the corresponding move is made at the box of the Automaton, by Maelzel himself, who then acts as the representative of the antagonist."
6396,"But in a city all is closed shut like a prison, a wiry prison from which you can peep at the sky only."
6397,"I was glad of this, for I wished to retain with me as much weight as I could carry, for reasons which will be explained in the sequel."
6398,"This event caused many of those who were about to sail, to put foot again on firm land, ready to encounter any evil rather than to rush into the yawning jaws of the pitiless ocean."
6399,Elizabeth was sad and desponding; she no longer took delight in her ordinary occupations; all pleasure seemed to her sacrilege toward the dead; eternal woe and tears she then thought was the just tribute she should pay to innocence so blasted and destroyed.
6400,"Now, I was aware that Mrs. Adelaide Curtis, of Albany, was the artist's wife's mother, but then I looked upon the whole address as a mystification, intended especially for myself."
6401,"Upon reaching the hut I rapped, as was my custom, and getting no reply, sought for the key where I knew it was secreted, unlocked the door and went in."
6402,"There was a strain of morbidity there, and my mother had never encouraged my visiting her parents as a child, although she always welcomed her father when he came to Toledo."
6403,"""Common sense"" in reflecting on these subjects, I assured my friend with some warmth, is merely a stupid absence of imagination and mental flexibility."
6404,"I know not how many interminable aeons I sat stupefied; whispering, muttering, calling, screaming into that telephone."
6405,"If a thief had taken any, why did he not take the best why did he not take all?"
6406,"Will not they be awaiting us at the palazzo, the Lady Fortunato and the rest?"
6407,The MS. gave evidence of nervous agitation.
6408,One evening at about eight I heard a spattering on the floor and became suddenly aware that I had been smelling the pungent odour of ammonia for some time.
6409,"Not that exactly either for the madmen had been free, but the keepers were shut up in cells forthwith, and treated, I am sorry to say, in a very cavalier manner."""
6410,"God, with all the powers attributed to spirit, is but the perfection of matter."
6411,"""Pay attention, then find the left eye of the skull."""
6412,"She would see Raymond, since destiny had led him to her, and her constancy and devotion must merit his friendship."
6413,"""Here they are,"" he cried, ""beautiful creatures breathing, speaking, loving creatures."
6414,"But as time passed, men observed a want of gaiety in the once sparkling Musides."
6415,"These were now fixed upon me, piercing my soul with their hatred, and rooting me to the spot whereon I stood."
6416,"They are well kept, though I say it myself; and, in my general habits of accuracy and punctuality, I am not to be beat by a clock."
6417,I mentioned in my last letter the fears I entertained of a mutiny.
6418,"""Sunday, the seventh."
6419,"There was blood upon her white robes, and the evidence of some bitter struggle upon every portion of her emaciated frame."
6420,"I believe that I have no enemy on earth, and none surely would have been so wicked as to destroy me wantonly."
6421,"Hear my tale; it is long and strange, and the temperature of this place is not fitting to your fine sensations; come to the hut upon the mountain."
6422,"What mercy I might gain by returning the thing to its silent, sleeping owner I knew not; but I felt that I must at least try any step conceivably logical."
6423,The general burst of terrific grandeur was all that I beheld.
6424,"""True,"" said Dupin, after a long and thoughtful whiff from his meerschaum, ""although I have been guilty of certain doggrel myself."""
6425,"Its clearness was astonishing and unprecedented and as I watched I seemed to see again the thin, yellowish, shimmering exhalation which had startled me on that rainy afternoon so many years before."
6426,Words are impotent to convey any just idea of the fierceness of resistance with which she wrestled with the Shadow.
6427,"Were we among the tamer scenes of nature I might fear to encounter your unbelief, perhaps your ridicule; but many things will appear possible in these wild and mysterious regions which would provoke the laughter of those unacquainted with the ever varied powers of nature; nor can I doubt but that my tale conveys in its series internal evidence of the truth of the events of which it is composed."""
6428,What is he bawling about?
6429,They gave us comparatively little trouble.
6430,"About half a dozen men came forward; and, one being selected by the magistrate, he deposed that he had been out fishing the night before with his son and brother in law, Daniel Nugent, when, about ten o'clock, they observed a strong northerly blast rising, and they accordingly put in for port."
6431,"Some other evening "" KATE."
6432,"Thou shalt no longer, then, play the Teian with time, but, being ignorant of the myrtle and the vine, thou shalt bear about with thee thy shroud on the earth, as do the Moslemin at Mecca."" ""Morella"" I cried, ""Morella how knowest thou this?"" but she turned away her face upon the pillow and a slight tremor coming over her limbs, she thus died, and I heard her voice no more."
6433,"He is always successful, and bids fair, at the same time that he acquires high name and station for himself, to secure liberty, probably extended empire, to the Greeks."""
6434,"Leaving this drawer, as well as cupboard No. open, Maelzel now unlocks door No. , and door No. , which are discovered to be folding doors, opening into one and the same compartment."
6435,"Hereupon Legrand arose, with a grave and stately air, and brought me the beetle from a glass case in which it was enclosed."
6436,"Startled at the sound, I sprang upon my feet: while the gondolier, letting slip his single oar, lost it in the pitchy darkness beyond a chance of recovery, and we were consequently left to the guidance of the current which here sets from the greater into the smaller channel."
6437,The poor wretch had lost his young wife and lovely infant by the plague.
6438,OF my country and of my family I have little to say.
6439,"What I have adduced, notwithstanding the minuteness with which I have adduced it, has been with the view, first, to show the folly of the positive and headlong assertions of Le Soleil, but secondly and chiefly, to bring you, by the most natural route, to a further contemplation of the doubt whether this assassination has, or has not been, the work of a gang."
6440,"Among a multitude of opinions upon this delicate point some acute, some learned, some sufficiently the reverse I am able to select nothing which ought to be considered satisfactory."
6441,"It was painful to appear to drag her from the last scene that spoke of her lost one; but to linger here was vain, and my very soul was sick with its yearning to rejoin my Idris and her babes."
6442,The odour of the place repelled yet bewitched me.
6443,"I thought of Pompey alas, I thought of love I thought of my many false steps which have been taken, and may be taken again."
6444,"Their mark was speckled with the vivid alternate splendor of ebony and silver, and was smoother than all save the cheeks of Eleonora; so that, but for the brilliant green of the huge leaves that spread from their summits in long, tremulous lines, dallying with the Zephyrs, one might have fancied them giant serpents of Syria doing homage to their sovereign the Sun."
6445,Perdita and her child were to remain at Kishan.
6446,"When it had become known that such was the enormous wealth inherited, there were, of course, many speculations as to the mode of its disposal."
6447,"I shall depart for the latter town in a fortnight or three weeks; and my intention is to hire a ship there, which can easily be done by paying the insurance for the owner, and to engage as many sailors as I think necessary among those who are accustomed to the whale fishing."
6448,"When the time mentioned had expired, we had reached a depth of five feet, and yet no signs of any treasure became manifest."
6449,This is the haunt of the few gentle Fays who remain from the wreck of the race.
6450,Snatches of conversation indicated beyond a doubt that neither Romero nor I had left the bunkhouse during the night; that neither had been awake during the frightful storm which had passed over the Cactus range.
6451,"At the precise period, then, when this history properly commences, Legs, and his fellow Hugh Tarpaulin, sat, each with both elbows resting upon the large oaken table in the middle of the floor, and with a hand upon either cheek."
6452,"In the daytime she performed, to the best of her ability, the part of her mistress whose person, it had been carefully ascertained, was unknown to any of the passengers on board."
6453,"But all these precautions came late in the day, so that Gilman had some terrible hints from the dreaded Necronomicon of Abdul Alhazred, the fragmentary Book of Eibon, and the suppressed Unaussprechlichen Kulten of von Junzt to correlate with his abstract formulae on the properties of space and the linkage of dimensions known and unknown."
6454,I could merely agree with all Paris in considering them an insoluble mystery.
6455,"By the way, who is Mr. Kissam?"
6456,"His relations of their manners, his anecdotes and descriptions of scenery whiled away delicious hours, when we were tired of talking of our own plans of future life."
6457,The whole circuit of its walls did not exceed twenty five yards.
6458,"""The government of France were greatly enraged at the escape of their victim and spared no pains to detect and punish his deliverer."
6459,"In the sunny clime of Persia, in the crowded cities of China, amidst the aromatic groves of Cashmere, and along the southern shores of the Mediterranean, such scenes had place."
6460,So you are busy delving into the shady past of that insufferable young Asiatic Varius Avitus Bassianus?
6461,"Hearken for she speaks, and, heavens it is in the German of Schiller ""Unt stubby duk, so stubby dun Duk she duk she"" Alas and are not her words too true?"
6462,"""Be ready,"" said Dupin, ""with your pistols, but neither use them nor show them until at a signal from myself."""
6463,"Once however I witnessed a scene of singular interest at one of the theatres, where nature overpowered art, as an overflowing cataract will tear away the puny manufacture of a mock cascade, which had before been fed by a small portion of its waters."
6464,I cannot describe the delight I felt when I learned the ideas appropriated to each of these sounds and was able to pronounce them.
6465,"He spoke with outstretched hand and winning voice, and then turning to our invaders, with a severe brow, he commanded them to lay down their arms: ""Do you think,"" he said, ""that because we are wasted by plague, you can overcome us; the plague is also among you, and when ye are vanquished by famine and disease, the ghosts of those you have murdered will arise to bid you not hope in death."
6466,"Sheet lightning shimmered, and then a forky bolt flashed near at hand, as if descending into the accursed glen itself."
6467,"So the White Ship sailed on past the walls of Thalarion, and followed for many days a southward flying bird, whose glossy plumage matched the sky out of which it had appeared."
6468,"You've probably heard about the Salem man that came home with a Chinese wife, and maybe you know there's still a bunch of Fiji Islanders somewhere around Cape Cod."
6469,"Beyond this indication of extensive decay, however, the fabric gave little token of instability."
6470,"About midway in the short vista which my dreamy vision took in, one small circular island, profusely verdured, reposed upon the bosom of the stream."
6471,"At the sides of their necks were palpitating gills, and their long paws were webbed."
6472,"Having finished the chapter, he closed the book, and demanded what I thought necessary to be done."
6473,"Full of this purpose, I looked about me to find a friend whom I could entrust with a message to his Daddyship, and as the editor of the ""Lollipop"" had given me marked tokens of regard, I at length concluded to seek assistance upon the present occasion."
6474,"The streets seemed innumerable, and crossed each other irregularly in all directions, but were rather long winding alleys than streets, and absolutely swarmed with inhabitants."
6475,Its close resemblance to the medicinal leech caused the mistake to be overlooked until too late.
6476,"There was no attention paid to that great point, the ""fitness of things."""
6477,"Then the Western Land itself awoke, and joined the Mother Land in her titanic struggle for civilisation."
6478,"There can be no doubt, however, that he would meet with a ready sale for all the balderdash he can scribble, at the office of either the 'Rowdy Dow,' the 'Lollipop,' or the 'Goosetherumfoodle.'"""
6479,"The old seaman, who had survived his son Welcome's death in battle by two years, had not himself known the legend; but recalled that his earliest nurse, the ancient Maria Robbins, seemed darkly aware of something that might have lent a weird significance to the French ravings of Rhoby Harris, which she had so often heard during the last days of that hapless woman."
6480,"No flimsy creations were these houses, for they were made to serve many a generation."
6481,"The situation was almost past management, and deaths ensued too frequently for the local undertakers fully to handle."
6482,"Never, in all my life, had I witnessed so lavish, so wasteful an expenditure of the good things of life."
6483,"The church was scarce lighted by all the lanthorns that had entered it, for most of the throng had already vanished."
6484,Ibid's skull was proudly handed down from king to king of the Lombard line.
6485,"Never will I give up my search until he or I perish; and then with what ecstasy shall I join my Elizabeth and my departed friends, who even now prepare for me the reward of my tedious toil and horrible pilgrimage As I still pursued my journey to the northward, the snows thickened and the cold increased in a degree almost too severe to support."
6486,"But again I thought of the emptiness and horror of reality, and boldly prepared to follow whithersoever I might be led."
6487,I rely on her innocence as certainly as I do upon my own.
6488,"Statues and paintings there were, all of fiendish subjects and some executed by St. John and myself."
6489,"Yet I smile, and sometimes I speak almost forgetful of the change I have endured."
6490,"To my architectural and historical anticipations was now added an acute anthropological zeal, and I could scarcely sleep in my small room at the ""Y"" as the night wore away."
6491,"Such as he had now become, such as was his terrene vesture, defaced and spoiled, we wrapt it in our cloaks, and lifting the burthen in our arms, bore it from this city of the dead."
6492,"For this reason I swung the beetle, and for this reason I let it fall it from the tree."
6493,"The night waned, and I worked hastily, but in silence."
6494,"Besides, if Mr. Kissam actually did come upon the discovery he says he did, at the period designated nearly eight years ago how happens it that he took no steps, on the instant, to reap the immense benefits which the merest bumpkin must have known would have resulted to him individually, if not to the world at large, from the discovery?"
6495,I soon found that nearly all the company were well educated; and my host was a world of good humored anecdote in himself.
6496,"Maria had been at the shunned house from till the removal of the family in , and had seen Mercy Dexter die."
6497,"If I had not known where we were, and what we had to expect, I should not have recognised the place at all."
6498,"Our telescopes and our mathematical investigations assure us on every hand notwithstanding the cant of the more ignorant of the priesthood that space, and therefore that bulk, is an important consideration in the eyes of the Almighty."
6499,"The solitude became intolerable I placed my hand on the beating heart of Idris, I bent my head to catch the sound of her breath, to assure myself that she still existed for a moment I doubted whether I should not awake her; so effeminate an horror ran through my frame."
6500,"Upon coming back, after the death of Lady Jermyn, he himself assumed complete care of the boy."
6501,"Many books and musical instruments lay scattered about, but failed to give any vitality to the scene."
6502,Ain't ben seed abaout in public fer nigh on ten year'.
6503,"But in the corridors that followed the suite, there stood, opposite to each window, a heavy tripod, bearing a brazier of fire that projected its rays through the tinted glass and so glaringly illumined the room."
6504,"On the right and left, however, some ancient brick business blocks abutted on the hotel; their slant roofs coming up to a reasonable jumping distance from my fourth story level."
6505,"The whippoorwills an' fireflies there never did act like they was creaters o' Gawd, an' they's them as says ye kin hear strange things a rushin' an' a talkin' in the air daown thar ef ye stand in the right place, atween the rock falls an' Bear's Den."""
6506,"One of these drawings was a scene of Oriental luxury, or rather voluptuousness; another was a ""carnival piece,"" spirited beyond compare; the third was a Greek female head a face so divinely beautiful, and yet of an expression so provokingly indeterminate, never before arrested my attention."
6507,"The wind was rushing hurriedly behind the tapestries, and I wished to show her what, let me confess it, I could not all believe that those almost inarticulate breathings, and those very gentle variations of the figures upon the wall, were but the natural effects of that customary rushing of the wind."
6508,"Follow me; I seek the everlasting ices of the north, where you will feel the misery of cold and frost, to which I am impassive."
6509,"This apparatus will require some little explanation, and your Excellencies will please to bear in mind that my object, in the first place, was to surround myself and cat entirely with a barricade against the highly rarefied atmosphere in which I was existing, with the intention of introducing within this barricade, by means of my condenser, a quantity of this same atmosphere sufficiently condensed for the purposes of respiration."
6510,"You will not be dishonoured by my society, and as this is probably the last service, or disservice you can do me, will you grant my request?"""
6511,"But in that triumph there came to me the greatest of all horrors not horror of the thing that spoke, but of the deed that I had witnessed and of the man with whom my professional fortunes were joined."
6512,"Then P. Scribonius the proconsul signified his approval of my words, and stationed me with the cohort in the provisional capacity of a centurio primipilus; Balbutius and Asellius assenting, the former with better grace than the latter."
6513,"After lying there some fifteen minutes, during which time I listened with all my ears to what was going on in the room, I came to same satisfactory denouement of this tragedy."
6514,"On the other hand, it is exceedingly difficult to believe that these articles could have remained in the thicket specified, for a longer period than a single week for a longer period than from one Sunday to the next."
6515,"Just then, however, chance made the opening which my questions had been unable to make; and the wheezing ancient's rambling took a turn that caused me to lean forward and listen alertly."
6516,"Suddenly, he makes a dead halt, stoops, and picks up something from the ground in a very agitated manner."
6517,Corroborates the general testimony.
6518,"This was a matter for speculation, though one could be fairly certain that the type of mutation involved in a passage from any given dimensional plane to the next higher plane would not be destructive of biological integrity as we understand it."
6519,"Besides, the head of the institution had but lately warned me in his paternal way that I was overworking; that my mind needed a rest."
6520,"""Oh no, we had no conveniences for keeping him here."
6521,"When, in the end, my insistent pestering and maturing years evoked from my uncle the hoarded lore I sought, there lay before me a strange enough chronicle."
6522,There is no back passage by which any one could have descended while the party proceeded up stairs.
6523,"Their only merit in my eyes was that they were his."""
6524,"""The volume of Plutarch's Lives which I possessed contained the histories of the first founders of the ancient republics."
6525,I am still a very young man not yet twenty two years of age.
6526,"He was the devil incarnate, Birch, and I believe his eye for an eye fury could beat old Father Death himself."
6527,"We are ready to expose our breasts, exposed ten thousand times before, to the balls and scymetars of the infidels, and to fall gloriously for Greece."
6528,"He continued, ""You must create a female for me with whom I can live in the interchange of those sympathies necessary for my being."
6529,And always the goal of my fancies was the mighty vine grown wall with the little gate of bronze therein.
6530,"While I remained motionless, and busied in endeavors to collect my thought, the cold hand grasped me fiercely by the wrist, shaking it petulantly, while the gibbering voice said again: ""Arise did I not bid thee arise?"" ""And who,"" I demanded, ""art thou?"" ""I have no name in the regions which I inhabit,"" replied the voice, mournfully; ""I was mortal, but am fiend."
6531,Arthur Jermyn was the son of Sir Alfred Jermyn and a music hall singer of unknown origin.
6532,You do not mean to set at naught the well digested idea of centuries.
6533,"He had often talked about her in my presence, however, and in his usual style of enthusiasm."
6534,"We both agreed in loving Adrian: although she not having yet escaped from childhood could not appreciate as I did the extent of his merits, or feel the same sympathy in his pursuits and opinions."
6535,You will weep but they will be tears of gentleness.
6536,let us not argue the matter.
6537,"Chapter From this day natural philosophy, and particularly chemistry, in the most comprehensive sense of the term, became nearly my sole occupation."
6538,"I saw that some ten or twelve vibrations would bring the steel in actual contact with my robe, and with this observation there suddenly came over my spirit all the keen, collected calmness of despair."
6539,"And the over conscientious finder takes the fifty with marked reluctance, and throws the gentleman the book, as desired, while the steamboat fumes and fizzes on her way."
6540,"Windows in shanties on the slope outside were shattered by the shock, whilst miners throughout the nearer passages were knocked from their feet."
6541,"I observed also, with surprise, the immense size of these hands, the longest of which could not have been less than ten feet in length, and, where broadest, eight or nine inches in breadth."
6542,"I remained two days at Lausanne, in this painful state of mind."
6543,"The witnesses, as you remark, agreed about the gruff voice; they were here unanimous."
6544,"I resolved therefore to go from village to village, seeking out the rustic archon of the place, and by systematizing their exertions, and enlightening their views, encrease both their power and their use among their fellow cottagers."
6545,Then I knew that a long section of them must be plainly in sight where the sides of the cut flattened out and the road crossed the track and I could no longer keep myself from sampling whatever horror that leering yellow moon might have to shew.
6546,"I know not whether the fiend possessed the same advantages, but I found that, as before I had daily lost ground in the pursuit, I now gained on him, so much so that when I first saw the ocean he was but one day's journey in advance, and I hoped to intercept him before he should reach the beach."
6547,"Last Monday July st we were nearly surrounded by ice, which closed in the ship on all sides, scarcely leaving her the sea room in which she floated."
6548,This was the last subject we discussed.
6549,"They relate that, on finding himself taken, Kempelen seized the crucibles with both hands which were encased in gloves that afterwards turned out to be asbestic, and threw the contents on the tiled floor."
6550,"placed in our hands, such portion as details the following up of the apparently slight clew obtained by Dupin."
6551,"So Sarnath waxed mighty and learned and beautiful, and sent forth conquering armies to subdue the neighbouring cities; and in time there sate upon a throne in Sarnath the kings of all the land of Mnar and of many lands adjacent."
6552,"The air had begun to be exceedingly unwholesome; but to this detail he paid no attention as he toiled, half by feeling, at the heavy and corroded metal of the latch."
6553,h'ehye n'grkdl'lh. . .
6554,"Dombrowski, frantic at the failure of his constant rat poisoning efforts, cast aside all thought of his lease and within a week had moved with all his older lodgers to a dingy but less ancient house in Walnut Street."
6555,I was admitted within that sacred boundary which divides the intellectual and moral nature of man from that which characterizes animals.
6556,"Upon detaching the slab, a cavity appeared, containing a leaden box filled with various coins, a long scroll of names, several documents which appear to resemble newspapers, with other matters of intense interest to the antiquarian There can be no doubt that all these are genuine Amriccan relics belonging to the tribe called Knickerbocker."
6557,In none is there any effort at plausibility in the details of the voyage itself.
6558,"What do you intend to do?"" ""To go instantly to Geneva: come with me, Henry, to order the horses."""
6559,"No ghostly Keziah flitted through the sombre halls and chambers, no small furry thing crept into his dismal eyrie to nuzzle him, and no record of the witch's incantations rewarded his constant search."
6560,Would he never overcome the fierce passion that now held pityless dominion over him?
6561,"""Man was made to mourn,"" says the poet."
6562,"This picture is gone, and was doubtless the temptation which urged the murderer to the deed."
6563,"Now he must be well over a hundred, but that piping voice could come from no one else."
6564,To be happy at any one point we must have suffered at the same.
6565,"Brooding over this plan, resolved when the hour should come, to propose, and insist upon its accomplishment, secure of his consent, the heart of Perdita was lightened, or rather exalted."
6566,There was no flaw in any link of the chain.
6567,"He asserted, that each individual under the English monarchy, was then as now, capable of attaining high rank and power with one only exception, that of the function of chief magistrate; higher and nobler rank, than a bartering, timorous commonwealth could afford."
6568,"What, in the name of everything hideous, did this mean?"
6569,"But I was not afraid long, for the gowned, slippered old man in the doorway had a bland face that reassured me; and though he made signs that he was dumb, he wrote a quaint and ancient welcome with the stylus and wax tablet he carried."
6570,"It was the painted figure of Time as he is commonly represented, save that, in lieu of a scythe, he held what, at a casual glance, I supposed to be the pictured image of a huge pendulum such as we see on antique clocks."
6571,"I have, on the contrary, delved deeply into all the antiquities of the place; and have personally explored every region, of whatever name, which could possibly answer to the street I knew as the Rue d'Auseil."
6572,"We soon found ourselves driving out to sea at the rate of not less, certainly, than fifty or sixty miles an hour, so that we came up with Cape Clear, at some forty miles to our North, before we had secured the rod, and had time to think what we were about."
6573,"I did not shriek, but all the fiendish ghouls that ride the night wind shrieked for me as in that same second there crashed down upon my mind a single and fleeting avalanche of soul annihilating memory."
6574,"He had been ready once with the humility of a penitent, and the duty of a vassal, to surrender himself to her; giving up his very soul to her tutelage, to become her pupil, her slave, her bondsman."
6575,This dread was not exactly a dread of physical evil and yet I should be at a loss how otherwise to define it.
6576,"Let your compassion be moved, and do not disdain me."
6577,"It had a complete flush deck, with only a small hatch near the bow, and this hatch it had always been our custom to batten down when about to cross the Ström, by way of precaution against the chopping seas."
6578,"The eyes rolled themselves slowly open, the pupils disappearing upwardly; the skin generally assumed a cadaverous hue, resembling not so much parchment as white paper; and the circular hectic spots which, hitherto, had been strongly defined in the centre of each cheek, went out at once."
6579,"An old servant forced the carven lid, shaking as he did so at the hideous faces leering from the blackened wood, and at some unplaced familiarity."
6580,"I became my original self, and bent my steps eagerly homeward but the past had not lost the vividness of the real and not now, even for an instant, can I compel my understanding to regard it as a dream."""
6581,"But it would be well to say as little as could be said, and to let no other doctor treat the wounds."
6582,He threatened excommunication and hell fire in my last moments if I continued obdurate.
6583,And now Sefton Asylum has had the mishap and West has vanished.
6584,"We had scarcely visited the various lakes of Cumberland and Westmorland and conceived an affection for some of the inhabitants when the period of our appointment with our Scotch friend approached, and we left them to travel on."
6585,There was a rift where a part of the substance was folded over.
6586,He found a relief to his impatient grief in the breezes of heaven and in the sound of waters and woods.
6587,But for all of their monstrousness they were not unfamiliar to me.
6588,"""If now, in addition to all these things, you have properly reflected upon the odd disorder of the chamber, we have gone so far as to combine the ideas of an agility astounding, a strength superhuman, a ferocity brutal, a butchery without motive, a grotesquerie in horror absolutely alien from humanity, and a voice foreign in tone to the ears of men of many nations, and devoid of all distinct or intelligible syllabification."
6589,"I will see you to morrow; in the meantime, adieu"" She rose, and walked from the room; but pausing at the door, and leaning against it, as if her over busy thoughts had taken from her the power of supporting herself, she said, ""Lord Raymond will probably return."
6590,"Above all, I burn to know the incidents of your own passage through the dark Valley and Shadow."
6591,"He was a portly, fine looking gentleman of the old school, with a polished manner, and a certain air of gravity, dignity, and authority which was very impressive."
6592,"He was alone in the sky with this queer and very disturbing house; and when he sidled around to the front and saw that the wall stood flush with the cliff's edge, so that the single narrow door was not to be reached save from the empty aether, he felt a distinct terror that altitude could not wholly explain."
6593,"Deeds of heroism also occurred, whose very mention swells the heart and brings tears into the eyes."
6594,"While I stood bewildered at the suddenness of this accident, which might have happened, nevertheless, to any one under the sun, and while I still continued incapable of sight, I was accosted by the Angel of the Odd, who proffered me his aid with a civility which I had no reason to expect."
6595,"""Why, thank you upon second thoughts, no."
6596,The wretchedness of earth is multiform.
6597,The old man was dead.
6598,"She would not consent to this proposition, but as soon as she had arranged the affairs which her brother's departure had caused to fall to her care, she quitted England and took me with her to her scotch estate."
6599,"The diddler himself flies to her assistance, and, giving his friend a comfortable thrashing, insists upon attending the lady to her own door."
6600,"they rattled our door, but pa wouldn't open . . ."
6601,He knew that this accusation at least was false.
6602,I knew too well what they must be for was not the memory of that evil tiara at Newburyport still fresh?
6603,"When mankind were few, it was not here that they battled with the powerful agents of nature, and were enabled to cover the globe with offspring."
6604,"Something about the staring, unwinking expression of both of them had given me a vague, unaccountable uneasiness."
6605,"Ignorant and dirty, he was at home amongst the other brown skinned Mexicans; having come so I was afterward told from the very lowest sort of surroundings."
6606,Mebbe they was the kind o' critters as got all the mermaid stories an' sech started.
6607,"I felt also sentiments of joy and affection revive in my bosom; my gloom disappeared, and in a short time I became as cheerful as before I was attacked by the fatal passion."
6608,"""You need not wonder that I freely discover Adrian's abode."
6609,"His countenance was of a dark snuff color, and he had a long hooked nose, pea eyes, a wide mouth, and an excellent set of teeth, which latter he seemed anxious of displaying, as he was grinning from ear to ear."
6610,"Furtiveness and secretiveness seemed universal in this hushed city of alienage and death, and I could not escape the sensation of being watched from ambush on every hand by sly, staring eyes that never shut."
6611,"And I saw the world battling against blackness; against the waves of destruction from ultimate space; whirling, churning; struggling around the dimming, cooling sun."
6612,"But that evening two items in the paper, wholly unrelated, made it again impossible for us to sleep."
6613,His followers felt that he was not.
6614,"And the rock was gray, and ghastly, and tall, and the rock was gray."
6615,"I am aware that by many I shall be held to blame for speaking in a manner so cursory, of a transaction so impalpable."
6616,But it is needless to say that I stood upon the principle of the thing.
6617,"It advanced; the heavens were clouded, and I soon felt the rain coming slowly in large drops, but its violence quickly increased."
6618,"As a child Lord Northam had had peculiar dreams when sleeping in the older parts of the castle, and had acquired a constant habit of looking back through his memory for half amorphous scenes and patterns and impressions which formed no part of his waking experience."
6619,A scrupulous method characterized my actions as well as my accounts.
6620,"Take the Protectorship who will; before God I renounce it"" ""And before God,"" replied his opponent, fervently, ""do I receive it No one will canvass for this honour now none envy my danger or labours."
6621,One word I might speak and then you would be implicated in my destruction; yet that word is hovering on my lips.
6622,We at once concluded that these mirrors were so placed to multiply to the vision some few pieces of machinery within the trunk so as to give it the appearance of being crowded with mechanism.
6623,No words no sounds resembling words were by any witness mentioned as distinguishable.
6624,"In a moment of childish imagination I vowed not only that the undertaker, Goodman Simpson, had stolen the silver buckled shoes, silken hose, and satin small clothes of the deceased before burial; but that the Squire himself, not fully inanimate, had turned twice in his mound covered coffin on the day after interment."
6625,Strange ambition this Yet such was Adrian.
6626,"When I afterward had time for reflection, I did not fail to attribute the extreme violence of the explosion, as regarded myself, to its proper cause my situation directly above it, and in the line of its greatest power."
6627,"Geologists, the curator told me, had found it a monstrous puzzle; for they vowed that the world held no rock like it."
6628,"Lord Raymond was never born to be a drone in the hive, and to find content in our pastoral life."
6629,Men usually grow base by degrees.
6630,"I was thus deprived of the pleasure of seeing, although not of hearing, her sing."
6631,"Its two general directions, as I have said, were first from west to east, and then from north to south."
6632,We were rapidly approaching the mountains in the South; but our elevation was more than sufficient to enable us to pass them in safety.
6633,"As the minuteness of the parts formed a great hindrance to my speed, I resolved, contrary to my first intention, to make the being of a gigantic stature, that is to say, about eight feet in height, and proportionably large."
6634,"It was Greenwich, the Greenwich that used to be, with here and there a roof or row of houses as we see it now, yet with lovely green lanes and fields and bits of grassy common."
6635,"They were dead, and I lived; their murderer also lived, and to destroy him I must drag out my weary existence."
6636,"The contemplation of their excellence tended, naturally, to discourage me by comparison with my own abortions; so that for a long time I labored in vain."
6637,"On the morning of September th Professor Rice and Dr. Morgan insisted on seeing him for a while, and departed trembling and ashen grey."
6638,Only the least fraction was really matter in any sense we know.
6639,"We had for many years trod the highway of life hand in hand, and still thus linked, we might step within the shades of death; but her children, her lovely, playful, animated children beings sprung from her own dear side portions of her own being depositories of our loves even if we died, it would be comfort to know that they ran man's accustomed course."
6640,"Without despairing, however, I undertook the siege of a less implacable heart."
6641,"He is worshipped under the figure of a large stone pillar terminating at the summit in a cone or pyramid, whereby is denoted Fire."
6642,"Farewell to the sea Come, my Clara, sit beside me in this aerial bark; quickly and gently it cleaves the azure serene, and with soft undulation glides upon the current of the air; or, if storm shake its fragile mechanism, the green earth is below; we can descend, and take shelter on the stable continent."
6643,"The sunset and the gentle moon, the blessed motion of the leaves and the murmuring of waters are all sweet physicians to a distempered mind."
6644,Or were the townsfolk really so resentful about curious visitors?
6645,"We had previously opened the doors of all the other rooms on that hall, and flung all the windows to the very top."
6646,"And then both stench and sounds grew stronger, so that I paused shivering and grateful for the cut's protection."
6647,Lord Byron's Fourth Canto of Childe Harolde.
6648,Nor did this seem extravagant.
6649,"Between the thicket and the river, the fences were found taken down, and the ground bore evidence of some heavy burthen having been dragged along it."
6650,"Meantime, the ordinary affairs of men were discarded and all interests absorbed in a growing discussion, instituted by the philosophic, in respect to the cometary nature."
6651,"Descending to Elwood's room he roused his still sleeping host and began telling of how he had found himself, but Elwood could form no idea of what might really have happened."
6652,The right hand was clenched; the left partially open.
6653,"I soon grew as poor as a rat, and, having a wife and children to provide for, my burdens at length became intolerable, and I spent hour after hour in reflecting upon the most convenient method of putting an end to my life."
6654,"To these pangs were added the loss of Perdita, lost through my own accursed self will and conceit."
6655,"Because I was mountain bred, unallied to the noble and wealthy, shall he think to repay me by an empty name and station?"
6656,I took my visitors all over the house.
6657,"""A madman,"" I said, ""has done this deed some raving maniac, escaped from a neighboring Maison de Santé."""
6658,The night promises fair.
6659,"Bryant, in his very learned 'Mythology,' mentions an analogous source of error, when he says that 'although the Pagan fables are not believed, yet we forget ourselves continually, and make inferences from them as existing realities.'"
6660,"He plucks flowers and weeds, and weaves chaplets of them, or sails yellow leaves and bits of bark on the stream, rejoicing in their safety, or weeping at their wreck."
6661,"The rats must have bitten him as he slept, giving rise to the climax of that frightful dream."
6662,"As for the twentieth time or more Arthur Munroe and I went minutely over every inch of the violated village, we were filled with a certain discouragement coupled with vague and novel fears."
6663,"What I muttered about as I came slowly out of the shadows was a pair of fantastic incidents which occurred in my flight; incidents of no significance, yet which haunt me unceasingly when I am alone in certain marshy places or in the moonlight."
6664,"The fragmentary descriptions of these things were bald and prosaic, but they hinted to me an undercurrent of persistent strangeness."
6665,All was rigorously self consistent.
6666,"Lay down your arms, fellow men brethren Pardon, succour, and brotherly love await your repentance."
6667,"Most were seamen, and a sprinkling of negroes and mulattoes, largely West Indians or Brava Portuguese from the Cape Verde Islands, gave a colouring of voodooism to the heterogeneous cult."
6668,"But neither the presence of her child, nor a subsequent visit from me, could rouse my sister."
6669,"Subtle Nature, convulsed with a spiritual ecstasy, like the froth of that region's quondam beverage, laid low the lofty and heaved high the humble and behold In the roseal dawn the burghers of Milwaukee rose to find a former prairie turned to a highland Vast and far reaching was the great upheaval."
6670,"The conversation, in the meantime, was spirited and general."
6671,"And as I stood there looking in terror, the wind blew out both the candles in that ancient peaked garret, leaving me in savage and impenetrable darkness with chaos and pandemonium before me, and the daemon madness of that night baying viol behind me."
6672,"""No, Justine,"" said Elizabeth; ""he is more convinced of your innocence than I was, for even when he heard that you had confessed, he did not credit it."""
6673,"The rest followed him, and looked curiously at the immense carved door with the now familiar squid dragon bas relief."
6674,"Mimes, in the form of God on high, Mutter and mumble low, And hither and thither fly; Mere puppets they, who come and go At bidding of vast formless things That shift the scenery to and fro, Flapping from out their Condor wings Invisible Wo That motley drama oh, be sure It shall not be forgot With its Phantom chased forever more, By a crowd that seize it not, Through a circle that ever returneth in To the self same spot, And much of Madness and more of Sin And Horror the soul of the plot."
6675,"This game is simple, and is played with marbles."
6676,"When I left them they had tormented me but it was in the same way as pain and sickness may torment; somthing extraneous to the mind that galled it, and that I wished to cast aside."
6677,One paternal kind precaution he had taken to ensure my having a companion.
6678,"Indeed, to say the truth, what little of its former self may then remain, will be found in so desolate and ruinous a state that the patriarch shall have removed his residence to Damascus."
6679,"At the turn of morning a gentle sigh from the patient attracted me, the burning spot on his cheek faded his pulse beat softly and regularly torpor yielded to sleep."
6680,"He knows where the Old Ones broke through of old, and where They shall break through again."
6681,I was sought after therefore with less care than would otherwise have been the case; and soon all trace and memory of me was lost.
6682,"Frederick was, at that time, in his fifteenth year."
6683,"Had the letter been deposited within the range of their search, these fellows would, beyond a question, have found it."""
6684,"My heart was fashioned to be susceptible of love and sympathy, and when wrenched by misery to vice and hatred, it did not endure the violence of the change without torture such as you cannot even imagine."
6685,"From my experience I cannot doubt but that man, when lost to terrestrial consciousness, is indeed sojourning in another and uncorporeal life of far different nature from the life we know; and of which only the slightest and most indistinct memories linger after waking."
6686,Where does madness leave off and reality begin?
6687,"Scarcely had I dropped my head back into its original position, when there flashed upon my mind what I cannot better describe than as the unformed half of that idea of deliverance to which I have previously alluded, and of which a moiety only floated indeterminately through my brain when I raised food to my burning lips."
6688,"In the rooms, large and lofty, and decorated with impossible paper and ridiculously ornate stucco cornices, there lingered a depressing mustiness and hint of obscure cookery; but the floors were clean, the linen tolerably regular, and the hot water not too often cold or turned off, so that I came to regard it as at least a bearable place to hibernate till one might really live again."
6689,"The proper position for one who cannot swim, is the upright position of the walker on land, with the head thrown fully back, and immersed; the mouth and nostrils alone remaining above the surface."
6690,"He deserved it all all labour, all devotion, all sacrifice; I would have toiled up a scaleless Alp, to pluck a flower that would please him."
6691,"We examined, first, the furniture of each apartment."
6692,"He told how the young Charles had escaped into the night, returning in after years to kill Godfrey the heir with an arrow just as he approached the age which had been his father's at his assassination; how he had secretly returned to the estate and established himself, unknown, in the even then deserted subterranean chamber whose doorway now framed the hideous narrator; how he had seized Robert, son of Godfrey, in a field, forced poison down his throat, and left him to die at the age of thirty two, thus maintaining the foul provisions of his vengeful curse."
6693,"But now, in the midst of the dying and the dead, how could a thought of heaven or a sensation of tranquillity possess one of the murderers?"
6694,"But, O, Lionel a kingdom is a word of might, and gently sounding are the terms that compose the style of royalty."
6695,"Clara was greatly moved; with streaming eyes, suppressing her sobs, she leaned from the window, watching the last glimpse of her native Windsor."
6696,"Alpha Lyrae, although so very much larger than our sun, by the by, resembles him closely as regards its spots, its atmosphere, and in many other particulars."
6697,"At this point I interrupted your meditations to remark that as, in fact, he was a very little fellow that Chantilly he would do better at the Théâtre des Variétés."""
6698,"He is eloquent and persuasive, and once his words had even power over my heart; but trust him not."
6699,"My father was not scientific, and I was left to struggle with a child's blindness, added to a student's thirst for knowledge."
6700,"""Yet,"" replied I, ""nature always presents to our eyes the appearance of a patient: while there is an active principle in man which is capable of ruling fortune, and at least of tacking against the gale, till it in some mode conquers it."""
6701,"The thing actually opened its eyes, but only stared at the ceiling with a look of soul petrifying horror before collapsing into an inertness from which nothing could rouse it."
6702,"And yet all this might have been endured, if not approved, by the mad revellers around."
6703,He would be as O wy as O wy could be.
6704,Take possession of your tenement and let me fly from this place.'
6705,"The guides pointed to the reflection of their torches on the water that paved it, leaving us to form our own conclusion; but adding it was a pity, for it led to the Sibyl's Cave."
6706,"These were the feelings of an old, faithful servant: what must be those of an affectionate daughter."
6707,"This thing had done Slater some hideous but unnamed wrong, which the maniac if maniac he were yearned to avenge."
6708,Every author should confine himself to matters of experience.
6709,"In an evil hour I subscribed to a lie; and now only am I truly miserable."""
6710,"These ideas, once entertained, are sufficient of themselves, to suggest the notion of a man in the interior."
6711,"Up, up, up the eerie columns slithered, and I saw that all the travellers were converging as they flowed near a sort of focus of crazy alleys at the top of a high hill in the centre of the town, where perched a great white church."
6712,"He bent his keen eyes upon me, and my uncontrollable heart swelled in my bosom."
6713,"In about half an hour after her departure, the ""large amount"" is seen to be a ""counterfeit presentment,"" and the whole thing a capital diddle."
6714,"With the advance of summer, and the increase of the distemper, rents were unpaid, and their remittances failed them."
6715,"Nothing has been written on this topic which can be considered as decisive and accordingly we find every where men of mechanical genius, of great general acuteness, and discriminative understanding, who make no scruple in pronouncing the Automaton a pure machine, unconnected with human agency in its movements, and consequently, beyond all comparison, the most astonishing of the inventions of mankind."
6716,"The soiree would scarcely break up before two; and by this hour the vehicle was to be at the door, when, in the confusion occasioned by the departure of the company, Madame L. could easily enter it unobserved."
6717,"He now seated me near the machine, so that it was on my right, and turned a switch somewhere below the crowning cluster of glass bulbs."
6718,Why is it folly to suppose that the murder was committed within five minutes after the girl's quitting her mother's house?
6719,"Visiters enter, look at furniture, and depart unheeded and unseen."
6720,"Generation after generation lived and felt and died there, and in days when people weren't afraid to live and feel and die."
6721,"Very usually he is saved from premature interment solely by the knowledge of his friends that he has been previously subject to catalepsy, by the consequent suspicion excited, and, above all, by the non appearance of decay."
6722,"He wanted the lands of dream he had lost, and yearned for the days of his childhood."
6723,"The first two or three rounds having been played, he is in full possession of the contents of each hand, and thenceforward puts down his cards with as absolute a precision of purpose as if the rest of the party had turned outward the faces of their own."
6724,'The Venerable Chinese novel Ju Kiao Li.' Good By introducing these few words with dexterity you will evince your intimate acquaintance with the language and literature of the Chinese.
6725,"ten or twenty maouths or trunks a stickin' aout all along the sides, big as stovepipes, an' all a tossin' an' openin' an' shuttin' . . ."
6726,"I think you'd enjoy the pictures, for as I said, I've let myself go a bit there."
6727,"She had at the beginning of the season quitted the vacant city of Vienna; and, unable to tame her haughty mind to anything like submission, she had delayed at Hamburgh, and, when at last she came to London, many weeks elapsed before she gave Adrian notice of her arrival."
6728,"But I disdained the artifice; or rather in my wretchedness it was my only consolation to pour out my heart to you, my brother, my only friend."
6729,"He half felt that he was followed a psychological delusion of shaken nerves, enhanced by the undeniably disturbing fact that at least one of our reanimated specimens was still alive a frightful carnivorous thing in a padded cell at Sefton."
6730,When I was thirteen years of age we all went on a party of pleasure to the baths near Thonon; the inclemency of the weather obliged us to remain a day confined to the inn.
6731,"I often said to myself, my father is dead."
6732,But dismiss the idle opinions of this print.
6733,Upon this hint he proceeded.
6734,"During the excavation of this cellar the workmen had struck some exceedingly ancient masonry; undoubtedly connected with the old burying ground, yet far too deep to correspond with any known sepulchre therein."
6735,"I saw this vista, I say, and heard as with the mind's ear the blasphemous domdaniel of cacophony which companioned it."
6736,All obeyed the Lord Protector of dying England; all looked up to him.
6737,nobody left but them as ud jine in with Obed an' them things or else keep quiet . . .
6738,Y'ha nthlei was not destroyed when the upper earth men shot death into the sea.
6739,"And the moon ceased to totter up its pathway to heaven and the thunder died away and the lightning did not flash and the clouds hung motionless and the waters sunk to their level and remained and the trees ceased to rock and the water lilies sighed no more and the murmur was heard no longer from among them, nor any shadow of sound throughout the vast illimitable desert."
6740,"My key to the vault I kept suspended from a cord about my neck, its presence known only to me."
6741,"Harmony was the soul of our companionship, and the diversity and contrast that subsisted in our characters drew us nearer together."
6742,"To check this ascent, the only recourse is, or rather was, until Mr. Green's invention of the guide rope, the permission of the escape of gas from the valve; but, in the loss of gas, is a proportionate general loss of ascending power; so that, in a comparatively brief period, the best constructed balloon must necessarily exhaust all its resources, and come to the earth."
6743,"The language in which the discourse was clothed was that debased form of Latin in use amongst the more learned men of the Middle Ages, and made familiar to me by my prolonged researches into the works of the old alchemists and daemonologists."
6744,"Don't crow, another time, before you're out of the woods Does your mother know you're out?"
6745,"War and revolution were raging across the seas; a dynasty had collapsed, and its degenerate subjects were flocking with dubious intent to the Western Land."
6746,"I bent over the body, and took in my hand the edge of his cloak, less altered in appearance than the human frame it clothed."
6747,"The picture I present to you is peaceful and human, and you must feel that you could deny it only in the wantonness of power and cruelty."
6748,Obed he kinder takes charge an' says things is goin' to be changed . . .
6749,I had my glass with me.
6750,"Some grumble but all submit, and the diddler goes home a wealthier man by some fifty or sixty dollars well earned."
6751,Yet what will the energy of true genius not effect?
6752,"And as years rolled away, and I gazed day after day upon her holy, and mild, and eloquent face, and poured over her maturing form, day after day did I discover new points of resemblance in the child to her mother, the melancholy and the dead."
6753,"With great diligence did men of hidden badges linger and listen about such places as Petrovitch's Bakery, the squalid Rifkin School of Modern Economics, the Circle Social Club, and the Liberty Café."
6754,"Go you before break of day, bear these dispatches to Karazza, add to them your own entreaties that he send me his marines and naval force; if I can get but one regiment to second me, the rest would follow of course."
6755,"I presume you will call the bug scarabæus caput hominis, or something of that kind there are many similar titles in the Natural Histories."
6756,"I was here, accordingly, thrown out at the sign of the ""Crow"" by which tavern the coach happened to be passing, without meeting with any farther accident than the breaking of both my arms, under the left hind wheel of the vehicle."
6757,"During the five years we had spent together, a knot of happy human beings at Windsor Castle, her blissful lot had been the frequent theme of my sister's conversation."
6758,The next step was to induce Raymond to confess his secret wishes for dignity and fame.
6759,"There was a factory inspector who stopped at the Gilman a couple of years ago, and he had a lot of unpleasant hints about the place."
6760,"Whether it was human or simian only a scientist could determine, and the process of determination would be greatly hampered by its imperfect condition."
6761,I could not fail to perceive this change.
6762,"Geological considerations had dictated an extension of the mine directly downward from the deepest part of the subterranean area; and the belief of the Superintendent that only solid rock would be encountered, had led to the placing of a prodigious charge of dynamite."
6763,"they, the good, the wise, and the beloved, are gone before."
6764,"Begone I have answered you; you may torture me, but I will never consent."""
6765,"He had, however, a great interest in antiquities; and proposed to explore the bog thoroughly when it was drained."
6766,"Independently of the phthisis, the patient was suspected of aneurism of the aorta; but on this point the osseous symptoms rendered an exact diagnosis impossible."
6767,"Wasn't yesterday, Sunday, I should like to know?"" ALL."
6768,The first indication of revival was afforded by a partial descent of the iris.
6769,"My first visit would be to my sister, who inhabited a little cottage, a part of Adrian's gift, on the borders of Windsor Forest."
6770,"Old Castro, unfortunately, had been dead for some years."
6771,"I cannot follow; for I do not sympathize in their dreams of massacre and glory to follow and to lead in such a career, is the natural bent of Raymond's mind."
6772,"Allowing the remark to have applied in its full force to the outward demeanor of my acquaintance, I felt it, on that eventful morning, still more fully applicable to his moral temperament and character."
6773,"Winter passed away; and spring, led by the months, awakened life in all nature."
6774,"did you ever behold as lovely a woman?"" ""She is very beautiful, no doubt,"" he said."
6775,"""Be assured, sir,"" said he, ""no pains or exertions on my part shall be spared to discover the villain."""
6776,"Our lonely house was seemingly alive with the presence of some malign being whose nature we could not guess, and every night that daemoniac baying rolled over the windswept moor, always louder and louder."
6777,"You will not follow me, for when I bannish myself would you nourish guilt by obtruding yourself upon me?"
6778,"Thus, in the latter instance, the body, as a general rule, would not sink at all a fact of which L'Etoile is evidently ignorant."
6779,"""The Tragedy in the Rue Morgue."
6780,We have thus this arrangement: the tree;?
6781,"Dr. M. says I ought to spell ""cant"" with a capital K but I know better."
6782,"Warton, Dr. Adam Smith, Dr. Percy, Author of the ""Reliques"", Mr. Edw."
6783,"That's because only a real artist knows the actual anatomy of the terrible or the physiology of fear the exact sort of lines and proportions that connect up with latent instincts or hereditary memories of fright, and the proper colour contrasts and lighting effects to stir the dormant sense of strangeness."
6784,"He would write of what he knew before death came, but his wife must not guess."
6785,"""True; and you will remember an expression attributed almost unanimously, by the evidence, to this voice, the expression, 'mon Dieu' This, under the circumstances, has been justly characterized by one of the witnesses Montani, the confectioner, as an expression of remonstrance or expostulation."
6786,To me he discoursed ceaselessly of his beloved Ionian.
6787,"Like the one I had at first seen in the hold, they all bore about them the marks of a hoary old age."
6788,"She moved again, and I fled."
6789,"I resolved, at least, not to despair, but in every way to fit myself for an interview with them which would decide my fate."
6790,"Why need I paint, Charmion, the now disenchained frenzy of mankind?"
6791,"Then came the storm of April nd, and a gathering of the clouds about his consciousness."
6792,"I followed the gaze of one very fat and ugly frog, and saw the second of the things which drove my senses away."
6793,The head rebel was too cunning for that.
6794,"I dread the events of the future, not in themselves, but in their results."
6795,"With him he bore the subject of his visit, a grotesque, repulsive, and apparently very ancient stone statuette whose origin he was at a loss to determine."
6796,"I walked with a quick pace, and we soon arrived at my college."
6797,"An odd impulse caused me to climb upon the broad slab, extinguish my candle, and lie down within the vacant box."
6798,"The forms of the beloved dead flit before me, and I hasten to their arms."
6799,"The sea was gently agitated, now shewing a white crest, and now resuming an uniform hue; the clouds had disappeared; and dark ether clipt the broad ocean, in which the constellations vainly sought their accustomed mirror."
6800,"It advanced from behind the mountains of Jura, and the thunder burst at once with frightful loudness from various quarters of the heavens."
6801,"""It is a servant of course,"" I said; ""what a fool I am, not sooner to have thought of so obvious a solution"" And then I again repaired to the list but here I saw distinctly that no servant was to come with the party, although, in fact, it had been the original design to bring one for the words ""and servant"" had been first written and then overscored."
6802,"He raved of things he did not understand and could not interpret; things which he claimed to have experienced, but which he could not have learned through any normal or connected narration."
6803,"No; shed a few natural tears due to my memory: and if you ever visit my grave, pluck from thence a flower, and lay it to your heart; for your heart is the only tomb in which my memory will be enterred."
6804,"At length I turned on my heel, livid with wrath, and inwardly consigning the whole tribe of the Talbots to the innermost regions of Erebus."
6805,But the house how quaint an old building was this to me how veritably a palace of enchantment There was really no end to its windings to its incomprehensible subdivisions.
6806,The natives suspend it by a cord from the ceiling and enjoy its fragrance for years.
6807,"Saving theirs, no eyes beheld the two divine figures released by skilful blows from the rough blocks that had imprisoned them since the world began."
6808,"The fibres of his frame became relaxed, and cold dew stood on his forehead, at this idea."
6809,"Miss Tilton, comparing all possible hypotheses regarding its origin and its presence in New England, was inclined to believe that it formed part of some exotic pirate hoard discovered by old Captain Obed Marsh."
6810,"Then his fevered, abnormal hearing caught the distant, windborne notes."
6811,"After his motion had been seconded, Lord Raymond rose, his countenance bland, his voice softly melodious, his manner soothing, his grace and sweetness came like the mild breathing of a flute, after the loud, organ like voice of his adversary."
6812,"The only people in sight there had been the fishermen on the distant breakwater; and by going a few squares south I could get beyond the range of these, finding a pair of seats on some abandoned wharf and being free to question old Zadok unobserved for an indefinite time."
6813,"From above, hung a chain of an unknown blood red metal its upper end lost, like the city of Boston, parmi les nues."
6814,"Of my frantic ascent of the slope and cliff, and of my delirious journey back to the stranded boat, I remember little."
6815,"The Doctor, however, like all enthusiasts, had struggled hard to make a thorough convert of his pupil, and finally so far gained his point as to induce the sufferer to submit to numerous experiments."
6816,"Could make out several words, but cannot now remember all."
6817,"I felt disinclined to sit down, and wandered about examining the various articles which I had noticed."
6818,"Berenice and I were cousins, and we grew up together in my paternal halls."
6819,"In the morning the custom house officers, together with a crowd of idlers, visited her."
6820,"""D n the vagabonds"" said he, in so clear a tone that I positively started at the change, ""D n the vagabonds they not only knocked in the roof of my mouth, but took the trouble to cut off at least seven eighths of my tongue."
6821,"Beyond that wall in the grey dawn he came to a land of quaint gardens and cherry trees, and when the sun rose he beheld such beauty of red and white flowers, green foliage and lawns, white paths, diamond brooks, blue lakelets, carven bridges, and red roofed pagodas, that he for a moment forgot Celephaïs in sheer delight."
6822,"Give me that decanter, Eliot There was one thing called ""The Lesson"" heaven pity me, that I ever saw it Listen can you fancy a squatting circle of nameless dog like things in a churchyard teaching a small child how to feed like themselves?"
6823,"If Idris became thin and pale, it was anxiety that occasioned the change; an anxiety I could in no way alleviate."
6824,"Their numbers ably arranged; the very deaths among them concealed; moving on in good order, and apparently given up to enjoyment, they excited the envy of the Irish."
6825,But still do I flatter myself that this would have passed away.
6826,"It had been used, apparently, in remote feudal times, for the worst purposes of a donjon keep, and, in later days, as a place of deposit for powder, or some other highly combustible substance, as a portion of its floor, and the whole interior of a long archway through which we reached it, were carefully sheathed with copper."
6827,"She obtained an hearing, he sat in haughty silence, but he listened."
6828,"This circumstance did not fail to give me the most heartful satisfaction, and I hailed it as a happy omen of ultimate success."
6829,"Pickman was in every sense in conception and in execution a thorough, painstaking, and almost scientific realist."
6830,"The tears and agitation of my poor sister had rendered her unfit to return to the circle we had left so I persuaded her to let me drive her through the park; and, during the ride, I induced her to confide the tale of her unhappiness to me, fancying that talking of it would lighten the burthen, and certain that, if there were a remedy, it should be found and secured to her."
6831,"I would have made a pilgrimage to the highest peak of the Andes, could I when there have precipitated him to their base."
6832,What it was that Pompey saw so very peculiar in my appearance I have never yet been able to find out.
6833,And now a partial and evanescent success.
6834,"""I have the honor to be, etc., your Excellencies' very humble servant, ""HANS PFAALL."""
6835,Not till my adult years did my uncle set before me the notes and data which he had collected concerning the shunned house.
6836,"I have often attributed my attachment to, my passionate enthusiasm for, the dangerous mysteries of ocean to that production of the most imaginative of modern poets."
6837,"In doing this, I underwent a kind of rough usage, ill befitting the wounds that my mind had sustained."
6838,"This impression was confirmed by my uncle's less systematic array of miscellaneous data legends transcribed from servant gossip, cuttings from the papers, copies of death certificates by fellow physicians, and the like."
6839,"After that followed a sharp grating noise, a shouted gibberish from Pickman, and the deafening discharge of all six chambers of a revolver, fired spectacularly as a lion tamer might fire in the air for effect."
6840,"Gilman could not have told what he expected to find there, but he knew he wanted to be in the building where some circumstance had more or less suddenly given a mediocre old woman of the seventeenth century an insight into mathematical depths perhaps beyond the utmost modern delvings of Planck, Heisenberg, Einstein, and de Sitter."
6841,"Does not Lord Bacon say that, 'the falling from a discord to a concord, which maketh great sweetness in music, hath an agreement with the affections, which are re integrated to the better after some dislikes?'"
6842,"That heart sinking feeling was painted in her sunk eyes and spiritless attitude; a cloud was on her beauty, and frequent sighs were tokens of her distress."
6843,"The experience of immemorial time had taught us formerly to count our enjoyments by years, and extend our prospect of life through a lengthened period of progression and decay; the long road threaded a vast labyrinth, and the Valley of the Shadow of Death, in which it terminated, was hid by intervening objects."
6844,No star had been visible at that point before.
6845,"""Keep it for my sake for the sake of her whom it too flatteringly represents."
6846,Then the headless thing threw out its arms in a gesture which was unmistakably one of desperation an intelligent desperation apparently sufficient to prove every theory of Herbert West.
6847,"As I approached the latter, she seized my hand, and drew me into another apartment; she threw herself into my arms, and wept and sobbed bitterly and long."
6848,"After this there was a dead stillness, and I heard nothing more, upon either occasion, until nearly daybreak; unless, perhaps, I may mention a low sobbing, or murmuring sound, so very much suppressed as to be nearly inaudible if, indeed, the whole of this latter noise were not rather produced by my own imagination."
6849,"He seemed insensible to the presence of any one else, but if, as a trial to awaken his sensibility, my aunt brought me into the room he would instantly rush out with every symptom of fury and distraction."
6850,"Then, as if in response to an insidious motion of my host's hand, a flash of heat lightning played over the scene, and I looked out upon a sea of luxuriant foliage foliage unpolluted, and not the sea of roofs to be expected by any normal mind."
6851,The heat became all at once intolerable.
6852,"Once I falsely hoped to meet with beings who, pardoning my outward form, would love me for the excellent qualities which I was capable of unfolding."
6853,He would have to consult a nerve specialist after all perhaps there was a connexion with his somnambulism but meanwhile he might at least try to break the morbid spell himself.
6854,"But the feelings that actuated Evadne were rooted in the depths of her being, and were such in their growth as he had no means of understanding."
6855,"But not much is written of these beings, because they lived in very ancient times, and man is young, and knows little of the very ancient living things."
6856,"I did so, saying: ""M."
6857,This event occurred about two years after the atrocity in the Rue Morgue.
6858,"When you have signed it, I will hand you the letter."""
6859,She amused us all very much.
6860,"But my chief delights were the sight of the flowers, the birds, and all the gay apparel of summer; when those deserted me, I turned with more attention towards the cottagers."
6861,"""My father,"" I answered, ""it is the study of Nosology."""
6862,But it is your happiness I desire as well as my own when I declare to you that our marriage would render me eternally miserable unless it were the dictate of your own free choice.
6863,"I had heard of some discoveries having been made by an English philosopher, the knowledge of which was material to my success, and I sometimes thought of obtaining my father's consent to visit England for this purpose; but I clung to every pretence of delay and shrank from taking the first step in an undertaking whose immediate necessity began to appear less absolute to me."
6864,"On quitting the invalid's bed side to hold conversation with myself, Doctors D and F had bidden him a final farewell."
6865,"Copp's Hill Burying Ground, which could not be many blocks away from this very house, was a favourite scene."
6866,"They wait patient and potent, for here shall They reign again."""
6867,But why shall I minutely detail the unspeakable horrors of that night?
6868,"I glanced at the painting hurriedly, and then closed my eyes."
6869,"Thus coming nearer and nearer each other, the howls and shouts of the Irish increased; the English proceeded in obedience to their officers, until they came near enough to distinguish the faces of their enemies; the sight inspired them with fury: with one cry, that rent heaven and was re echoed by the furthest lines, they rushed on; they disdained the use of the bullet, but with fixed bayonet dashed among the opposing foe, while the ranks opening at intervals, the matchmen lighted the cannon, whose deafening roar and blinding smoke filled up the horror of the scene."
6870,"For example ""Ex nihilo nihil fit""; ""a body cannot act where it is not""; ""there cannot exist antipodes""; ""darkness cannot come out of light"" all these, and a dozen other similar propositions, formerly admitted without hesitation as axioms, were, even at the period of which I speak, seen to be untenable."
6871,"I engaged rooms in Jermyn street, and sent her Majesty the ninety ninth edition of the ""Nosology,"" with a portrait of the proboscis."
6872,Of one only fault he might have been accused; but his death has cancelled that.
6873,"It is all that remains of my friend; the friend who led me on to madness and wreckage; a godlike head of such marble as only old Hellas could yield, young with the youth that is outside time, and with beauteous bearded face, curved, smiling lips, Olympian brow, and dense locks waving and poppy crowned."
6874,I heard of the discovery of the American hemisphere and wept with Safie over the hapless fate of its original inhabitants.
6875,"Finding that no satisfaction was to be obtained of Jupiter, whose whole intellect seemed to be absorbed by ""de bug,"" I now stepped into the boat and made sail."
6876,"For in all that seething combustion no warmth lay, but only the clamminess of death and corruption."
6877,"At six I had an appointment of consequence, which it was quite indispensable that I should keep."
6878,"It suddenly struck me as very natural that the local people should not wish to ride on a bus owned and driven by this man, or to visit any oftener than possible the habitat of such a man and his kinsfolk."
6879,"""And do you also believe that I am so very, very wicked?"
6880,Listen You spoke thus: 'It is done it is most cheerfully agreed I sacrifice every feeling for your sake.
6881,"When this occurs, no second effort is made, but the arm continues its movement in the direction originally intended, precisely as if the piece were in the fingers."
6882,There is no individual portion of the architecture and decoration of that bridal chamber which is not now visibly before me.
6883,"One clenched hand contained a slip of paper, on which was written, ""To Athens."""
6884,"The conditions of the sentience had been here, he imagined, fulfilled in the method of collocation of these stones in the order of their arrangement, as well as in that of the many fungi which overspread them, and of the decayed trees which stood around above all, in the long undisturbed endurance of this arrangement, and in its reduplication in the still waters of the tarn."
6885,Our little voyages of discovery were often prolonged by the successive objects that presented themselves.
6886,Its rim is about four feet deep.
6887,"Having paid his debts, therefore, in the most honourable manner, he retreated with his daughter to the town of Lucerne, where he lived unknown and in wretchedness."
6888,"At length the king was brought to see in him a source of perpetual disquiet, knowing that he should pay for the short lived pleasure of his society by tedious homilies, and more painful narrations of excesses, the truth of which he could not disprove."
6889,"""It is now noon or thereabouts we shall have time enough to get through with them all before midnight."
6890,Where was pain and evil?
6891,Just waited up and lit out the first thing in the morning.
6892,I cannot very well express to you the effect of this intelligence upon the people.
6893,"Remember me with affection, should you never hear from me again."
6894,"My bed was so contrived upon the floor of the car, as to bring my head, in lying down, immediately below the mouth of the pitcher."
6895,"He had found an unknown bivalve, forming a new genus, and, more than this, he had hunted down and secured, with Jupiter's assistance, a scarabæus which he believed to be totally new, but in respect to which he wished to have my opinion on the morrow."
6896,Newton owed it to Kepler.
6897,Her subsequent conduct did not diminish this interest.
6898,"""Certainly,"" replied the ex queen, with bitter scorn, ""his love, and her love, and both their childish flutterings, are to be put in fit comparison with my years of hope and anxiety, with the duties of the offspring of kings, with the high and dignified conduct which one of her descent ought to pursue."
6899,"Phantasies such as these, presenting themselves at night, extended their terrific influence far into my waking hours."
6900,"And whether the sea was rough or calm, and whether the wind was friendly or adverse, it would always glide smoothly and silently, its sails distant and its long strange tiers of oars moving rhythmically."
6901,The solitude seemed absolutely virgin.
6902,"He also gave me the list of books which I had requested, and I took my leave."
6903,"When the men of Teloth heard these things they whispered to one another; for though in the granite city there is no laughter or song, the stern men sometimes look to the Karthian hills in the spring and think of the lutes of distant Oonai whereof travellers have told."
6904,"It was the Yule rite, older than man and fated to survive him; the primal rite of the solstice and of spring's promise beyond the snows; the rite of fire and evergreen, light and music."
6905,"I continued to watch her unremittingly, although I was fully conscious of my rudeness in so doing."
6906,A rapid smile shot over the countenance of the listener.
6907,Time had altered her since I last beheld her; it had endowed her with loveliness surpassing the beauty of her childish years.
6908,"At length, however, I took courage, and did not hesitate to step firmly; endeavoring to cross in as direct a line as possible."
6909,"Roofs were fallen and columns were broken, but there still remained an air of immemorially ancient splendour which nothing could efface."
6910,The first sight of this place for a time unhinged her.
6911,"I replied, however, that we were on a voyage of discovery towards the northern pole."
6912,"As the White Ship sailed silently away from the templed terraces of Zar, we beheld on the distant horizon ahead the spires of a mighty city; and the bearded man said to me: ""This is Thalarion, the City of a Thousand Wonders, wherein reside all those mysteries that man has striven in vain to fathom."""
6913,"""A few months ago,"" he continued, ""I was thought to be dying; but life was strong within me."
6914,"Now, with the eyes closed, it looked more asleep than dead; though the expert test of my friend soon left no doubt on that score."
6915,"By ten, I had reason to believe its density considerably increased."
6916,"Should the Inutos attempt to gain the citadel by the narrow pass behind the peak Noton, and thereby surprise the garrison, I was to give the signal of fire which would warn the waiting soldiers and save the town from immediate disaster."
6917,I am the Signora Psyche Zenobia.
6918,Brevet Brigadier General John A. B. C. Smith was the man was the man that was used up.
6919,"Since my sojourn in the borough, they have had several special meetings, and have adopted these three important resolutions: ""That it is wrong to alter the good old course of things:"" ""That there is nothing tolerable out of Vondervotteimittiss:"" and ""That we will stick by our clocks and our cabbages."""
6920,"""I discovered also another means through which I was enabled to assist their labours."
6921,"And up unending steps of shining zircon was the tower chamber, wherefrom the high priests looked out over the city and the plains and the lake by day; and at the cryptic moon and significant stars and planets, and their reflections in the lake, by night."
6922,"As I thus mused, with half shut eyes, while the sun sank rapidly to rest, and eddying currents careered round and round the island, bearing upon their bosom large, dazzling, white flakes of the bark of the sycamore flakes which, in their multiform positions upon the water, a quick imagination might have converted into any thing it pleased, while I thus mused, it appeared to me that the form of one of those very Fays about whom I had been pondering made its way slowly into the darkness from out the light at the western end of the island."
6923,They left no nook or corner unexplored.
6924,"""The health,"" he said, ""attainable by other means is scarcely worth the name."""
6925,She never for a moment lost sight of her children.
6926,You have demanded of me my hand upon the morrow.
6927,"The fields had been left uncultivated, weeds and gaudy flowers sprung up, or where a few wheat fields shewed signs of the living hopes of the husbandman, the work had been left halfway, the ploughman had died beside the plough; the horses had deserted the furrow, and no seedsman had approached the dead; the cattle unattended wandered over the fields and through the lanes; the tame inhabitants of the poultry yard, baulked of their daily food, had become wild young lambs were dropt in flower gardens, and the cow stalled in the hall of pleasure."
6928,"I arose and argued about trifles, in a high key and with violent gesticulations; but the noise steadily increased."
6929,She would sit apart from us and watch him; she would weep for joy to think that he was hers.
6930,I loathed her with a hatred belonging more to demon than to man.
6931,"He had been found as a child in a crude mountain hut, the only survivor of an epidemic which had stalked lethally by."
6932,"Moreover, some years ago Maelzel visited Richmond with his automata, and exhibited them, we believe, in the house now occupied by M. Bossieux as a Dancing Academy."
6933,"The accelerated rate of ascent thus obtained, carried me too rapidly, and without sufficient gradation, into a highly rarefied stratum of the atmosphere, and the result had nearly proved fatal to my expedition and to myself."
6934,"But more ghastly and terrible still was the slowness of my progress; for climb as I might, the darkness overhead grew no thinner, and a new chill as of haunted and venerable mould assailed me."
6935,The fourth was furnished and lighted with orange the fifth with white the sixth with violet.
6936,"""PIQUANT EXPRESSIONS."
6937,"The boat made a sharp half turn to larboard, and then shot off in its new direction like a thunderbolt."
6938,In reply to a jumble of questions they only shook their heads and reaffirmed one vital fact.
6939,It may easily be imagined that I wearied myself with conjecture to guess the cause of his sorrow.
6940,"I might tell it to the winds and to the desart heaths but I must never among my fellow creatures, either by word or look give allowance to the smallest conjecture of the dread reality: I must shrink before the eye of man lest he should read my father's guilt in my glazed eyes: I must be silent lest my faltering voice should betray unimagined horrors."
6941,"It was pleasant to see the haughty Raymond and reserved Perdita changed through happy love into prattling, playful children, both losing their characteristic dignity in the fulness of mutual contentment."
6942,"In the spring of Jonathan Gifford, the Albany friend of Jan Martense, became worried by his correspondent's silence; especially in view of the conditions and quarrels at the Martense mansion."
6943,"She did not complain; in her brother's court she would find, not compensation for their disobedience filial unkindness admitted of none, but such a state of things and mode of life, as might best reconcile her to her fate."
6944,"In the war came, and Squire Sawyer Whateley, as chairman of the local draft board, had hard work finding a quota of young Dunwich men fit even to be sent to a development camp."
6945,"As night came on, her spirits, enlivened by my unexpected concession, regained an almost forgotten vivacity."
6946,"They opened each other's letters, even as, until now, the inmost fold of the heart of each was disclosed to the other."
6947,"I feared no man, and loved none."
6948,"I will quote the following account of the star Nova Persei verbatim from the pages of that eminent astronomical authority, Prof. Garrett P. Serviss: ""On February , , a marvellous new star was discovered by Dr. Anderson, of Edinburgh, not very far from Algol."
6949,Sometimes Woodville talked to me of himself.
6950,"It was strange, they said amongst themselves, that depression should thus seize one with so great a chance to win art's loftiest reward."
6951,"A weekly paper, however, at length took up the theme; the corpse was disinterred, and a re examination instituted; but nothing was elicited beyond what has been already noted."
6952,"I am poor and an exile, but it will afford me true pleasure to be in any way serviceable to a human creature.'"
6953,"My education was neglected, yet I was passionately fond of reading."
6954,PERHAPS no exhibition of the kind has ever elicited so general attention as the Chess Player of Maelzel.
6955,"There were no terms with which he was unwilling to comply, and there were none of which I failed to take the fullest advantage."
6956,"His heart was simple like a child, unstained by arrogance or vanity."
6957,"But thy days shall be days of sorrow that sorrow which is the most lasting of impressions, as the cypress is the most enduring of trees."
6958,"I cannot sleep at night now, and have to take opiates when it thunders."
6959,"But the case is otherwise when the back door of the cupboard No. I, is opened."
6960,"All, that is, but one."
6961,"At the base of the hill a thirty foot swath of crushed shrubbery saplings led steeply upward, and the seekers gasped when they saw that even the most perpendicular places did not deflect the inexorable trail."
6962,All Vondervotteimittiss flew at once into a lamentable state of uproar.
6963,"I felt immediately that it was the right one; a guess which the half illegible sign on the windshield ""Arkham Innsmouth Newb'port"" soon verified."
6964,"Thus armed at all points, I determined to make my wife believe that I was suddenly smitten with a passion for the stage."
6965,"The singular appearance of the cameleopard and the head of a man, has, it seems, given offence to the notions of propriety entertained, in general, by the wild animals domesticated in the city."
6966,"In their consequences, these events have terrified have tortured have destroyed me."
6967,It had cut through the linen beneath.
6968,There was no light of any kind emanating from lamp or candle within the suite of chambers.
6969,"The anemone, with great brilliancy, has no smell."
6970,"Occasionally the poetic intellect that intellect which we now feel to have been the most exalted of all since those truths which to us were of the most enduring importance could only be reached by that analogy which speaks in proof tones to the imagination alone and to the unaided reason bears no weight occasionally did this poetic intellect proceed a step farther in the evolving of the vague idea of the philosophic, and find in the mystic parable that tells of the tree of knowledge, and of its forbidden fruit, death producing, a distinct intimation that knowledge was not meet for man in the infant condition of his soul."
6971,"They were very sparse and insidious at first, but increased in frequency and vividness as the weeks went by."
6972,"It is only de late dat I am arrive, and not yet ave do opportunite for to l'etudier."
6973,"My sister and I were left truly like two fools, who fancied that they had obtained a golden treasure, till daylight shewed it to be lead two silly, luckless flies, who had played in sunbeams and were caught in a spider's web."
6974,"She continued with her foster parents and bloomed in their rude abode, fairer than a garden rose among dark leaved brambles."
6975,"Gibbon, the Historian, Dr. Burney, the Musician, Mr. Malone, the Critick, and Mr. Boswell."
6976,He turns his back forever upon those dreadful shrubberies and flees as from the wrath to come.
6977,"I wished all this done that I might resign myself, if not to sleep, at least alternately to the contemplation of these pictures, and the perusal of a small volume which had been found upon the pillow, and which purported to criticise and describe them."
6978,"Of all its qualities, remoteness in the earth most impressed me."
6979,"That man, as a race, should not become extinct, I saw that he must be ""born again."""
6980,"And now in the mere exaggeration of the prevailing character of these features, and of the expression they were wont to convey, lay so much of change that I doubted to whom I spoke."
6981,"Far out beyond the breakwater was the dim, dark line of Devil Reef, and as I glimpsed it I could not help thinking of all the hideous legends I had heard in the last thirty four hours legends which portrayed this ragged rock as a veritable gateway to realms of unfathomed horror and inconceivable abnormality."
6982,"For a moment of intense terror she paused upon the giddy pinnacle, as if in contemplation of her own sublimity, then trembled and tottered, and came down."
6983,"Industry did not flourish here, and the nineteenth century factory movement proved short lived."
6984,"Yet the promises of Eleonora were not forgotten; for I heard the sounds of the swinging of the censers of the angels; and streams of a holy perfume floated ever and ever about the valley; and at lone hours, when my heart beat heavily, the winds that bathed my brow came unto me laden with soft sighs; and indistinct murmurs filled often the night air, and once oh, but once only I was awakened from a slumber, like the slumber of death, by the pressing of spiritual lips upon my own."
6985,"After about an hour he got himself under better control, and saw that he was far from the city."
6986,"The new elections were finished; parliament met, and Raymond was occupied in a thousand beneficial schemes."
6987,"""Here is something better."
6988,I am surrounded by mountains of ice which admit of no escape and threaten every moment to crush my vessel.
6989,"The Marshes, together with the other three gently bred families of the town the Waites, the Gilmans, and the Eliots were all very retiring."
6990,"It was not in my nature to derive consolation from such scenes; from theatres, whose buffoon laughter and discordant mirth awakened distempered sympathy, or where fictitious tears and wailings mocked the heart felt grief within; from festival or crowded meeting, where hilarity sprung from the worst feelings of our nature, or such enthralment of the better ones, as impressed it with garish and false varnish; from assemblies of mourners in the guise of revellers."
6991,"They say that that haunting memory face is modelled from my own, as it was at twenty five, but upon the marble base is carven a single name in the letters of Attica 'ΥΠΝΟΣ."
6992,"Their beauty was Grecian, their deformity Egyptian, their tout ensemble French."
6993,"The path to it had been enlarged, and steps hewn in the rock led us less circuitously than before, to the spot itself; the platform on which the pyramid stood was enlarged, and looking towards the south, in a recess overshadowed by the straggling branches of a wild fig tree, I saw foundations dug, and props and rafters fixed, evidently the commencement of a cottage; standing on its unfinished threshold, the tomb was at our right hand, the whole ravine, and plain, and azure sea immediately before us; the dark rocks received a glow from the descending sun, which glanced along the cultivated valley, and dyed in purple and orange the placid waves; we sat on a rocky elevation, and I gazed with rapture on the beauteous panorama of living and changeful colours, which varied and enhanced the graces of earth and ocean."
6994,"The enigmas of the Symbolists and the ecstasies of the pre Raphaelites all were ours in their time, but each new mood was drained too soon of its diverting novelty and appeal."
6995,"He was naturally frank; the continued absence of Perdita and myself became remarkable; and Raymond soon found relief from the constraint of months, by an unreserved confidence with his two friends."
6996,A blackened circle on the floor of the ruined cellar told of a violent stroke from the heavens; and from this spot a group of curious villagers with lanterns were prying a small box of antique workmanship which the thunderbolt had brought to light.
6997,His condition remained precisely the same.
6998,"He could not walk, it appeared, and the emerging moon must have witnessed a horrible sight as he dragged his bleeding ankles toward the cemetery lodge; his fingers clawing the black mould in brainless haste, and his body responding with that maddening slowness from which one suffers when chased by the phantoms of nightmare."
6999,"His eyes were abnormally large, and round like those of a cat."
7000,"She hesitated some time, but at length she formed her determination."
7001,Queer how the fish swarm right there and nowhere else.
7002,"I walked and, I believe, descended, but I presently found a great alteration in my sensations."
7003,There was not an inch of any portion of the house which was not carefully searched.
7004,"And may it not thus happen that many far greater than Milton have contentedly remained ""mute and inglorious?"""
7005,There is a certain amount of bulk of space to be accounted for in every cabinet.
7006,"I saw at once that the peculiarities of the design, of the vignetting, and of the frame, must have instantly dispelled such idea must have prevented even its momentary entertainment."
7007,"These berths, to be sure, were so exceedingly narrow as to be insufficient for more than one person; still, I could not comprehend why there were three state rooms for these four persons."
7008,"The king lamented his absence; he loved to repeat his sayings, relate the adventures they had had together, and exalt his talents but here ended his reminiscence."
7009,"And when I saw that this reef was but the black basalt crown of a shocking eikon whose monstrous forehead now shone in the dim moonlight and whose vile hooves must paw the hellish ooze miles below, I shrieked and shrieked lest the hidden face rise above the waters, and lest the hidden eyes look at me after the slinking away of that leering and treacherous yellow moon."
7010,"For himself, he added, he had, some years since, made the acquaintance of Maillard, and would so far assist me as to ride up to the door and introduce me; although his feelings on the subject of lunacy would not permit of his entering the house."
7011,"Then, close to the hour of midnight, all the bronze gates of Sarnath burst open and emptied forth a frenzied throng that blackened the plain, so that all the visiting princes and travellers fled away in fright."
7012,Am I not shunned and hated by all mankind?
7013,"The afternoon of my search brought nothing to light, and dusk came as I stood on Maple Hill looking down at the hamlet and across the valley to Tempest Mountain."
7014,My other apartments are by no means of the same order mere ultras of fashionable insipidity.
7015,"Some from among the family of man must survive, and these should be among the survivors; that should be my task to accomplish it my own life were a small sacrifice."
7016,And at such moments was her beauty in my heated fancy thus it appeared perhaps the beauty of beings either above or apart from the earth the beauty of the fabulous Houri of the Turk.
7017,"And I recall that there was no wind, and that the moon was out, and that all the lights of the city twinkled."
7018,"Slater raved for upward of fifteen minutes, babbling in his backwoods dialect of great edifices of light, oceans of space, strange music, and shadowy mountains and valleys."
7019,"Returning home from some sailors' frolic the night, or rather in the morning of the murder, he found the beast occupying his own bed room, into which it had broken from a closet adjoining, where it had been, as was thought, securely confined."
7020,"As I spoke, rage sparkled in my eyes; the magistrate was intimidated."
7021,"But when he entered, misery and despair alone welcomed him."
7022,"I swear to you, by the earth which I inhabit, and by you that made me, that with the companion you bestow I will quit the neighbourhood of man and dwell, as it may chance, in the most savage of places."
7023,"All resort for ambition or pleasure was cut off the streets were grass grown the houses empty the few, that from necessity remained, seemed already branded with the taint of inevitable pestilence."
7024,"But he perpetually errs by being too deep or too shallow, for the matter in hand; and many a schoolboy is a better reasoner than he."
7025,"Philosophers opposed their principles, as barriers to the inundation of profligacy or despair, and the only ramparts to protect the invaded territory of human life; the religious, hoping now for their reward, clung fast to their creeds, as the rafts and planks which over the tempest vexed sea of suffering, would bear them in safety to the harbour of the Unknown Continent."
7026,"As many visitors came to view the prodigious tree, as to admire the art of the sculptor, so that Musides was seldom alone."
7027,"But wonders and wild fancies had been, of late days, strangely rife among mankind; and, although it was only with a few of the ignorant that actual apprehension prevailed, upon the announcement by astronomers of a new comet, yet this announcement was generally received with I know not what of agitation and mistrust."
7028,"Nearly all that we have hitherto known of them is, that they were a portion of the Knickerbocker tribe of savages infesting the continent at its first discovery by Recorder Riker, a knight of the Golden Fleece."
7029,"Some of the medallions have a question inscribed on each side, both of which the magician answered in succession."
7030,"The streets were blocked up, the ruins smoking; I climbed up one heap, only to view others in succession; and nothing told me where the centre of the town might be, or towards what point Raymond might have directed his course."
7031,"I took care, too, to have a nice little puddle at hand, which I could get at in a minute."
7032,"I knew this, but at other times I was unreasonable and laid the blame upon him, who was most blameless, and pevishly thought that if his gentle soul were more gentle, if his intense sympathy were more intense, he could drive the fiend from my soul and make me more human."
7033,There too were forms and fantasies more splendid than any I had ever known; the visions of young poets who died in want before the world could learn of what they had seen and dreamed.
7034,"The nearer I approached to your habitation, the more deeply did I feel the spirit of revenge enkindled in my heart."
7035,"When, two days after my frightful crawl through that crypt of the eyes and claw, I learned that a thing had malignly hovered twenty miles away at the same instant the eyes were glaring at me, I experienced virtual convulsions of fright."
7036,"I have seen Stethelos that is below the great cataract, and have gazed on the marsh where Sarnath once stood."
7037,"Some trifling difficulty with Bag, my attorney."
7038,"When I had tried to question the natives in the shops, the lunch room, the garages, and the fire station, I had found them even harder to get started than the ticket agent had predicted; and realised that I could not spare the time to overcome their first instinctive reticences."
7039,"""Dun't believe me, hey?"
7040,"It was seeking the door to the cellar, and when it found it, it vanished therein."
7041,"Crossing the threshold into that swarming temple of unknown darkness, I turned once to look at the outside world as the churchyard phosphorescence cast a sickly glow on the hill top pavement."
7042,"Finally, I hazarded a remark."
7043,Not a single impediment lay in the wheel route not even a chip or dead twig.
7044,"There was nothing I could say, because everything was wrong."
7045,"Old Kranon, the burgomaster, swore that the dark folk had taken the cats away in revenge for the killing of Menes' kitten; and cursed the caravan and the little boy."
7046,Only a stench and a tarry stickiness.
7047,"I saw his astronomical instruments put to strange uses, his globes defaced, his papers covered with abstruse calculations destroyed."
7048,That name has so often been degraded that it will not convey the idea of all that he was.
7049,"I wrote him again, entreating him to forward one forthwith."
7050,The shrill voice was that of an Englishman is sure of this.
7051,"They say he still wears clothes, but he'll take to the water soon."
7052,"The leaves of that year had withered before my work drew near to a close, and now every day showed me more plainly how well I had succeeded."
7053,"One or two stiff gales and the springing of a leak are accidents which experienced navigators scarcely remember to record, and I shall be well content if nothing worse happen to us during our voyage."
7054,"""The corpse, being supposed at the bottom of the river, will there remain until, by some means, its specific gravity again becomes less than that of the bulk of water which it displaces."
7055,"Large estates were secured to the dethroned monarch and his family; he received the title of Earl of Windsor, and Windsor Castle, an ancient royalty, with its wide demesnes were a part of his allotted wealth."
7056,"Smith Brevet Brigadier General John A. B. C. why, you know he's the man"" ""Man,"" here broke in Doctor Drummummupp, at the top of his voice, and with a thump that came near knocking the pulpit about our ears; ""man that is born of a woman hath but a short time to live; he cometh up and is cut down like a flower"" I started to the extremity of the pew, and perceived by the animated looks of the divine, that the wrath which had nearly proved fatal to the pulpit had been excited by the whispers of the lady and myself."
7057,"My nerves were very much affected, indeed, by these yells; but the rest of the company I really pitied."
7058,"But the overflowing misery I now felt, and the excess of agitation that I endured rendered me incapable of any exertion."
7059,How I have lived I hardly know; many times have I stretched my failing limbs upon the sandy plain and prayed for death.
7060,Fragments of dress were discovered on the brambles around.
7061,"My father still desired to delay our departure, fearful that I could not sustain the fatigues of a journey, for I was a shattered wreck the shadow of a human being."
7062,"He, at length, became so obstreperous that we grew fearful of his giving the alarm to some stragglers in the vicinity; or, rather, this was the apprehension of Legrand; for myself, I should have rejoiced at any interruption which might have enabled me to get the wanderer home."
7063,"Prone, at all times, to abstraction, I readily fell in with his humor; and, continuing to occupy our chambers in the Faubourg Saint Germain, we gave the Future to the winds, and slumbered tranquilly in the Present, weaving the dull world around us into dreams."
7064,"They sleep at a distance from their master's apartment, and, being chiefly Neapolitans, are readily made drunk."
7065,"Look into the mind of man, where wisdom reigns enthroned; where imagination, the painter, sits, with his pencil dipt in hues lovelier than those of sunset, adorning familiar life with glowing tints."
7066,"Quitting the Seven Towers, I rode eastward towards the Sweet Waters."
7067,"""But I am Iranon, a singer of songs,"" he said, ""and have no heart for the cobbler's trade."""
7068,Then one summer there came a philosopher into Kingsport.
7069,"Do not suppose that I am wicked or foolish enough to found my purposed sovereignty on a fraud, and one so easily discovered as the truth or falsehood of the Earl's insanity."
7070,"My aunt observed this, and when Justine was twelve years of age, prevailed on her mother to allow her to live at our house."
7071,"And in the Stygian grotto I saw them do the rite, and adore the sick pillar of flame, and throw into the water handfuls gouged out of the viscous vegetation which glittered green in the chlorotic glare."
7072,"Trade was stopped by the failure of the interchange of cargoes usual between us, and America, India, Egypt and Greece."
7073,"He bent toward me, took hold of my coat lapel, and hissed out some hints that could not be mistaken."
7074,"My Arkham born grandmother had seemed strange and almost terrifying to me, and I do not think I grieved when she disappeared."
7075,"Despair such as no other species of wretchedness ever calls into being despair alone urged me, after long irresolution, to uplift the heavy lids of my eyes."
7076,"Passing out of the closet with their prisoner, the officers went through a sort of ante chamber, in which nothing material was found, to the chemist's sleeping room."
7077,"Clerval eagerly desired to accept this invitation, and I, although I abhorred society, wished to view again mountains and streams and all the wondrous works with which Nature adorns her chosen dwelling places."
7078,"Small eyes, of no particular color, twinkled far back in his head."
7079,The difference of manners which he observed was to him an inexhaustible source of instruction and amusement.
7080,"After many fruitless attempts to gain admittance to the prison, he found a strongly grated window in an unguarded part of the building, which lighted the dungeon of the unfortunate Muhammadan, who, loaded with chains, waited in despair the execution of the barbarous sentence."
7081,His person was short but remarkably erect and his voice the sweetest I had ever heard.
7082,"My eyes, also, gave me great uneasiness."
7083,"And, through all, I wrote."
7084,We saw at a glance that the doom of the unfortunate artist was sealed.
7085,"I found him well educated, with unusual powers of mind, but infected with misanthropy, and subject to perverse moods of alternate enthusiasm and melancholy."
7086,"I rejoice, my dear friend, that we live in an age so enlightened that no such a thing as an individual is supposed to exist."
7087,I agree with Buffon with Hogarth it is but diligence after all.
7088,My mother and uncle Walter had not looked like that.
7089,"He had been thinking too much about the vague regions which his formulae told him must lie beyond the three dimensions we know, and about the possibility that old Keziah Mason guided by some influence past all conjecture had actually found the gate to those regions."
7090,"Arranging with the Belgian authorities for a party of guides, he spent a year in the Onga and Kaliri country, finding data beyond the highest of his expectations."
7091,"The note arriving at maturity, the diddler, with the diddler's dog, calls upon the friend, and the promise to pay is made the topic of discussion."
7092,In life I dared not; in death I unveil the mystery.
7093,"The thatch had fallen in, the walls were unplastered, and the door was off its hinges."
7094,For that the man always watched and listened no one could doubt.
7095,"Now you yourself, my dearest Eugenie, can have numbered no more than can have numbered no more than no more than than than than "" Here I paused for an instant, in the expectation that Madame Lalande would interrupt me by supplying her true age."
7096,"Through the lenses were discernible three tiny figures, apparently running toward the summit as fast as the steep incline allowed."
7097,Everything favoured my journey.
7098,At last he woke in his bed in the crazily angled garret of the eldritch old house.
7099,"I frequently engaged him in play, and contrived, with the gambler's usual art, to let him win considerable sums, the more effectually to entangle him in my snares."
7100,"I had commenced my search late in the day, a November day, that closed in early with pattering rain and melancholy wind."
7101,"Toward the end of the second hour I feared my quart of whiskey would not be enough to produce results, and was wondering whether I had better leave old Zadok and go back for more."
7102,"""Matters being thus arranged, I contrived, by the aid of my wife and with the greatest secrecy and caution, to dispose of what property I had remaining, and to borrow, in small sums, under various pretences, and without paying any attention to my future means of repayment, no inconsiderable quantity of ready money."
7103,"""What de matter now, massa?"" said Jup, evidently shamed into compliance; ""always want for to raise fuss wid old nigger."
7104,"The captain of a ship, which is about to sail, is presented by an official looking person with an unusually moderate bill of city charges."
7105,"He requested me in the meantime to ride through the camp, and to observe and report to him the dispositions of the soldiers; he then left me."
7106,"Yet, as she had foretold, her child, to which in dying she had given birth, which breathed not until the mother breathed no more, her child, a daughter, lived."
7107,"There I shrunk and fled from him, now I only wished to be with him that I might soothe him to peace."
7108,"The winter has been dreadfully severe, but the spring promises well, and it is considered as a remarkably early season, so that perhaps I may sail sooner than I expected."
7109,"When I appeared, she turned away, and in reply to my enquiries, only said, ""You know not what you have done"" I trusted that this sullenness betokened merely the struggle between disappointment and natural affection, and that in a few days she would be reconciled to her fate."
7110,"He was oddly anxious to know if Birch were sure absolutely sure of the identity of that top coffin of the pile; how he had chosen it, how he had been certain of it as the Fenner coffin in the dusk, and how he had distinguished it from the inferior duplicate coffin of vicious Asaph Sawyer."
7111,"There it stood; deserted, feared, and linked with the vengeful ghost of Jan Martense."
7112,"Experience demonstrated that in a year or two pestilence would cease; it were well that in the mean time we should not have destroyed our fine breeds of horses, or have utterly changed the face of the ornamented portion of the country."
7113,"While I remained in speechless astonishment at behavior so alarming, he suddenly leaped to his feet and made a rush at the bell rope; but just as he reached this, he appeared to have altered his intention, whatever it was, for he dived under a table and immediately re appeared with a cudgel."
7114,"Overreaching the wide horizon as the rainbow, its hues are as various as the hues of that arch as distinct too, yet as intimately blended."
7115,"In his explanation of this phraseology, Mr. Ellison did much towards solving what has always seemed to me an enigma."
7116,"To promenade, as usual, and large customer brought fat man..................................................... AUG. ."
7117,When Dr. Davis left Birch that night he had taken a lantern and gone to the old receiving tomb.
7118,You purpose to kill me.
7119,"For her children's sake alone she consented to remain, shorn of regality, a member of the English republic."
7120,"How very dear she was to Perdita In progress of time, I also became a father, and our little darlings, our playthings and delights, called forth a thousand new and delicious feelings."
7121,"The points of the compass, too, are in inextricable confusion; the writer appearing to be ignorant that, on a lunar map, these are not in accordance with terrestrial points; the east being to the left, etc. Deceived, perhaps, by the vague titles, Mare Nubium, Mare Tranquillitatis, Mare Faecunditatis, etc., given to the dark spots by former astronomers, Mr. L. has entered into details regarding oceans and other large bodies of water in the moon; whereas there is no astronomical point more positively ascertained than that no such bodies exist there."
7122,But I do not think my life will be long.
7123,The rim of ice to the northward was growing more and more apparent.
7124,"""It was well, it was mostly a kind of force that doesn't belong in our part of space; a kind of force that acts and grows and shapes itself by other laws than those of our sort of Nature."
7125,"He was alive, and with open, staring eyes, but seemed largely unconscious."
7126,"In both, it is of the lowest order of merit."
7127,"Why should our dwelling place be so lovely, and why should the instincts of nature minister pleasurable sensations?"
7128,"Let me pause to observe that the complexion of this man is dark and swarthy; it was no common swarthiness which constituted the sole point of remembrance, both as regards Valence and Madame Deluc."
7129,"I was trembling and my pillow was wet with my tears; for a few moments my heart beat hard, but the bright beams of the sun and the chirping of the birds quickly restored me to myself, and I rose with a languid spirit, yet wondering what events the day would bring forth."
7130,"For a moment she thought that she could stem the torrent, and that Raymond could be induced to hear reason from her. Vain hope The moment of her influence was passed."
7131,One star only trembled in the depth of the kindling atmosphere.
7132,"""That is also my victim"" he exclaimed."
7133,"On the contrary, my admiration for him kept growing; for that ""Ghoul Feeding"" was a tremendous achievement."
7134,"I did not move, for I could not; but watched dazedly as the door fell in pieces to admit a colossal, shapeless influx of inky substance starred with shining, malevolent eyes."
7135,"Amid the thought of the fiery destruction that impended, the idea of the coolness of the well came over my soul like balm."
7136,"Around him in the damp, low ceiled library with the musty white panelling, heavy carved overmantel, and small paned, vine shaded windows, were the relics and records of his ancient family, among which were many dubious allusions to the shunned house in Benefit Street."
7137,"Just what the white ape like creatures could have been, Mwanu had no idea, but he thought they were the builders of the ruined city."
7138,"And, with these words upon her lips, she yielded up her innocent life, putting an end to the first epoch of my own."
7139,"""I'm sorry to have to ask you to stay on the surface,"" he said, ""but it would be a crime to let anyone with your frail nerves go down there."
7140,"Geometrical shapes seethed around him, and he fell dizzily and interminably."
7141,"I mean the fact which none but the ignorant dispute, that no such combinations of scenery exist in Nature as the painter of genius has in his power to produce."
7142,"His height had increased to more than seven feet, and shewed no signs of ceasing its development."
7143,"What had come had indeed completed its entrance; for the barking and the screaming, now fast fading into a mixed low growling and moaning, proceeded unmistakably from within."
7144,"It has since been to me a matter of deep regret that an awkward accident, at this time, occasioned me the loss of my little family of cats, and deprived me of the insight into this matter which a continued experiment might have afforded."
7145,"Yet neither the mandate of the monarch, nor the huge barriers erected at the entrances of the streets, nor the prospect of that loathsome death which, with almost absolute certainty, overwhelmed the wretch whom no peril could deter from the adventure, prevented the unfurnished and untenanted dwellings from being stripped, by the hand of nightly rapine, of every article, such as iron, brass, or lead work, which could in any manner be turned to a profitable account."
7146,"On the morning of the first day of the next month, the landlady does not present her bill, according to promise a piece of neglect for which the comfortable head of the house ending in ogs would no doubt have chided her severely, could he have been prevailed upon to remain in town a day or two for that purpose."
7147,"Well do I remember these conversations, dear Monos; but the epoch of the fiery overthrow was not so near at hand as we believed, and as the corruption you indicate did surely warrant us in believing."
7148,The exceeding tenuity of the object of our dread was apparent; for all heavenly objects were plainly visible through it.
7149,"Even the poor deer, our antlered proteges, were obliged to fall for the sake of worthier pensioners."
7150,"My view was bounded only by the horizon except on one side where a distant wood made a black spot on the heath, that every where else stretched out its faint hues as far as the eye could reach, wide and very desolate."
7151,"Then the lightning flashed again, somewhat brighter than before, and the crowd fancied that it had shewed a certain mistiness around the altar stone on the distant height."
7152,"An intensity in thought, action, or speech, was possibly, in her, a result, or at least an index, of that gigantic volition which, during our long intercourse, failed to give other and more immediate evidence of its existence."
7153,But there is one pleasure still within the reach of fallen mortality and perhaps only one which owes even more than does music to the accessory sentiment of seclusion.
7154,I saw this smile fade for ever.
7155,"I mean the way he has 'de nier ce qui est, et d'expliquer ce qui n'est pas.'"""
7156,"The appearance of this man, and the instinctive fear he inspired, prepared me for something like enmity; so that I almost shuddered through surprise and a sense of uncanny incongruity when he motioned me to a chair and addressed me in a thin, weak voice full of fawning respect and ingratiating hospitality."
7157,"We know that there are diseases in which occur total cessations of all the apparent functions of vitality, and yet in which these cessations are merely suspensions, properly so called."
7158,"As if by some sudden convulsive exertion, reason had at once hurled superstition from her throne."
7159,"At the end of the tenth day it was thought advisable to double the sum originally proposed; and, at length, the second week having elapsed without leading to any discoveries, and the prejudice which always exists in Paris against the Police having given vent to itself in several serious émeutes, the Prefect took it upon himself to offer the sum of twenty thousand francs ""for the conviction of the assassin,"" or, if more than one should prove to have been implicated, ""for the conviction of any one of the assassins."""
7160,"It was not long since I was like one of these beardless aspirants; when my boy shall have obtained the place I now hold, I shall have tottered into a grey headed, wrinkled old man."
7161,"But decomposition is modified by innumerable circumstances is hastened or retarded by innumerable agencies; for example, by the heat or cold of the season, by the mineral impregnation or purity of the water, by its depth or shallowness, by its currency or stagnation, by the temperament of the body, by its infection or freedom from disease before death."
7162,"Flashing my pocket lamp into the skylight, I saw that there were no steps down."
7163,"I now too late discovered the great rashness of which I had been guilty in discharging the ballast, and my agitation was excessive."
7164,There was a secret which even torture could not extract.
7165,"""I paid especial attention to a large writing table near which he sat, and upon which lay confusedly, some miscellaneous letters and other papers, with one or two musical instruments and a few books."
7166,"For example, an arrant simpleton is his opponent, and, holding up his closed hand, asks, 'are they even or odd?' Our schoolboy replies, 'odd,' and loses; but upon the second trial he wins, for he then says to himself, 'the simpleton had them even upon the first trial, and his amount of cunning is just sufficient to make him have them odd upon the second; I will therefore guess odd;' he guesses odd, and wins."
7167,"In other words, the sun's attraction would be constantly attaining greater power, and the comet would be drawn nearer at every revolution."
7168,"I betook myself again to my nap, and at length a second time awoke, when, to my utter amazement, it still wanted twenty seven minutes of six."
7169,"He is that monstrum horrendum, an unprincipled man of genius."
7170,At last I saw the ancient arcaded station or what was left of it and made directly for the tracks that started from its farther end.
7171,How would such a friend repair the faults of your poor brother I am too ardent in execution and too impatient of difficulties.
7172,"I endeavored to reply, but my tongue refused its office."
7173,"The owner will, no doubt, insist upon rewarding you for your trouble ""Me no, you it was you who found the book."""
7174,"""Let this last but twelve months,"" said Adrian; ""and earth will become a Paradise."
7175,"Its bearer, an inhabitant of the moon, whom I have prevailed upon, and properly instructed, to be my messenger to the earth, will await your Excellencies' pleasure, and return to me with the pardon in question, if it can, in any manner, be obtained."
7176,"The exhibiter, however, will suffer the most powerful loadstone to remain even upon the box during the whole of the exhibition."
7177,"I confess to you, my friend, that I love you and that in my airy dreams of futurity you have been my constant friend and companion."
7178,"Nevertheless, that he failed in the solution of this mystery, is by no means that matter for wonder which he supposes it; for, in truth, our friend the Prefect is somewhat too cunning to be profound."
7179,"They were grave and quiet, and seemed shaken by memories and reflections even more terrible than those which had reduced the group of natives to a state of cowed quivering."
7180,"Nor, strange to say, was the time without its pleasures."
7181,This thing speaks for itself.
7182,Do not think from my slavery to morphine that I am a weakling or a degenerate.
7183,Had Gilman unconsciously succeeded better than he knew in his studies of space and its dimensions?
7184,"It was on a clear morning, in the latter days of December, that I first saw the white cliffs of Britain."
7185,"Yet through the dark natures of the father and the son ran one redeeming ray of humanity; the evil old man loved his offspring with fierce intensity, whilst the youth had for his parent a more than filial affection."
7186,"Yet strange to say her large lustrous eyes were not turned downwards upon that grave wherein her brightest hope lay buried but riveted in a widely different direction The prison of the Old Republic is, I think, the stateliest building in all Venice but how could that lady gaze so fixedly upon it, when beneath her lay stifling her only child?"
7187,The day of my departure at length arrived.
7188,"To commence then: The nose, according to Bartholinus, is that protuberance that bump that excrescence that "" ""Will do, Robert,"" interrupted the good old gentleman."
7189,There were all sorts of rumours about how Marsh had come to look.
7190,Every morning I gave my proboscis a couple of pulls and swallowed a half dozen of drams.
7191,His property was confiscated; his child became an orphan and a beggar.
7192,All through the long hellish hours of blackness it shines there.
7193,The wine sparkled in his eyes and the bells jingled.
7194,"I found a solitary boy of about seventeen in charge, and was pleased to note the brightness and affability which promised cheerful information."
7195,"No one who trustingly consults and thoroughly questions his own soul, will be disposed to deny the entire radicalness of the propensity in question."
7196,A lady is insulted in the street by a diddler's accomplice.
7197,My attention was fixed upon every object the most insupportable to the delicacy of the human feelings.
7198,He had a weak point this Fortunato although in other regards he was a man to be respected and even feared.
7199,"Of its origin, apart from the erratic and unbelievable tales extorted from the captured members, absolutely nothing was to be discovered; hence the anxiety of the police for any antiquarian lore which might help them to place the frightful symbol, and through it track down the cult to its fountain head."
7200,"""But I have just said that the figure was not that of a goat."""
7201,"When I ran to uplift him, to all appearance he was dead."
7202,Mrs. Wyatt herself was far more agreeable.
7203,"Beside which, his mien conquered me, and an affectionate sentiment towards him, again filled my heart I bade him command me."
7204,"It poured thickly, like a flood of oil bursting a rotten bulkhead, overturned a chair as it spread, and finally flowed under the table and across the room to where the blackened head with the eyes still glared at me."
7205,"I could not help, however, repeatedly observing, through the mingled tone of levity and solemnity with which he rapidly descanted upon matters of little importance, a certain air of trepidation a degree of nervous unction in action and in speech an unquiet excitability of manner which appeared to me at all times unaccountable, and upon some occasions even filled me with alarm."
7206,"Occasionally an opposite pair, both leaning forward, almost met across the street like an arch; and certainly they kept most of the light from the ground below."
7207,"We were at the bottom of one of these abysses, when a quick scream from my companion broke fearfully upon the night."
7208,He enwrapped himself in generalities.
7209,"Also in the Absurdities of Ravisius Textor, there is a long list of characters who came to the same magnificent end."
7210,"So, climbing out of the window and down the improvised rope ladder, I left behind me forever the morbid and horror infested fabric of the Gilman House."
7211,The method of the theft was not less ingenious than bold.
7212,"Now also that our children gave us occupation, we found excuses for our idleness, in the idea of bringing them up to a more splendid career."
7213,"""Wal, come abaout 'thutty eight when I was seven year' old Obed he faound the island people all wiped aout between v'yages."
7214,"This Essay we suppose to have been the original of the pamphlet to which Sir David Brewster alludes in his letters on Natural Magic, and which he has no hesitation in declaring a thorough and satisfactory explanation."
7215,"She afterwards continued her work, whilst the young man went into the garden and appeared busily employed in digging and pulling up roots."
7216,"""You perceive that aperture, Pompey."
7217,"God, in pity, made man beautiful and alluring, after his own image; but my form is a filthy type of yours, more horrid even from the very resemblance."
7218,"We, the Arcadian shepherds of the tale, had intended to be present at this festivity, but Perdita wrote to entreat us not to come, or to absent ourselves from Windsor; for she though she did not reveal her scheme to us resolved the next morning to return with Raymond to our dear circle, there to renew a course of life in which she had found entire felicity."
7219,"""I say approaches; for the night had not yet arrived."
7220,"The summer months passed while I was thus engaged, heart and soul, in one pursuit."
7221,"I learn that when this species of telegraph was first put into operation by Horse, it was considered quite impossible to convey the wires over sea, but now we are at a loss to comprehend where the difficulty lay So wags the world."
7222,"Yes, Thurber, I decided long ago that one must paint terror as well as beauty from life, so I did some exploring in places where I had reason to know terror lives."
7223,"It was not splintered by the shock, but entirely reduced to thin ribbons of wood."
7224,"I was now in a vortex of sound and motion, with confused pictures before my eyes."
7225,All this I saw indistinctly and by much effort: for my personal condition had been greatly changed during slumber.
7226,"The Cenci The Brides' Tragedy, by T. L. Beddoes, Esq."
7227,"Their disappearance added horror to the situation of them all West knew the whereabouts of only one, the pitiful asylum thing."
7228,"The sadness with which the former had first heard that the plague was in London had vanished; the energy of his purpose informed his body with strength, the solemn joy of enthusiasm and self devotion illuminated his countenance; and the weakness of his physical nature seemed to pass from him, as the cloud of humanity did, in the ancient fable, from the divine lover of Semele."
7229,"In March, , a gale wrecked the roof and great chimney of the vacant Witch House, so that a chaos of crumbling bricks, blackened, moss grown shingles, and rotting planks and timbers crashed down into the loft and broke through the floor beneath."
7230,I have already mentioned the suspicion to be excited by the fact that the articles in question were suffered to remain at all in the thicket where discovered.
7231,"I dimly wondered how the rhythmic sound had affected the watchman; but Romero was moving more swiftly now, and I followed without pausing."
7232,"The walls, with one exception, had fallen in."
7233,"While I listened to the instructions which Felix bestowed upon the Arabian, the strange system of human society was explained to me."
7234,"""I expected this,"" cried Perdita; ""I supposed that you would treat me as a mad, foolish girl."
7235,"His tale and the feelings he now expressed proved him to be a creature of fine sensations, and did I not as his maker owe him all the portion of happiness that it was in my power to bestow?"
7236,"Shaking in every limb, I groped my way back to the wall; resolving there to perish rather than risk the terrors of the wells, of which my imagination now pictured many in various positions about the dungeon."
7237,"Perhaps it was this latter trait in Wilson's conduct, conjoined with our identity of name, and the mere accident of our having entered the school upon the same day, which set afloat the notion that we were brothers, among the senior classes in the academy."
7238,"We lie down, and close our eyes with a gentle good night, and when we wake, we are free."
7239,The state of the room and of the bodies was described by this witness as we described them yesterday.
7240,"If heaven ever wishes to grant me a boon, it will be a total effacing of the results of a mere chance which fixed my eye on a certain stray piece of shelf paper."
7241,"Yet, to the honour of the English be it recorded, that, although natural disinclination made them delay awhile, yet when the misery of their fellow creatures became glaring, an enthusiastic generosity inspired their decrees."
7242,It had been doing that deed at the very moment the earth caved in on the thing with the claw and eyes.
7243,"The body, as well as the head, was fearfully mutilated the former so much so as scarcely to retain any semblance of humanity."
7244,I went below not without a full presentiment of evil.
7245,You must choose between these and your protectorate.
7246,"The whole house, as I have said, had a musty odour; but the smell in his room was worse and in spite of all the spices and incense, and the pungent chemicals of the now incessant baths which he insisted on taking unaided."
7247,We were surely sufficiently degraded.
7248,"My voice, although harsh, had nothing terrible in it; I thought, therefore, that if in the absence of his children I could gain the good will and mediation of the old De Lacey, I might by his means be tolerated by my younger protectors."
7249,"""Oh, good heavens who ever heard of such an idea?"" ""A little too self evident."""
7250,"More than a third of the members ranged themselves under Raymond, and their number was perpetually encreasing."
7251,"But I did not believe my errors to be irretrievable, and after much consideration I resolved to return to the cottage, seek the old man, and by my representations win him to my party."
7252,"""But how was I to direct myself?"
7253,"The city below stretched away to the limits of vision, and he hoped that no sound would well up from it."
7254,"So when I learned of the drug which would unlock the gate and drive me through, I resolved to take it when next I awaked."
7255,"As he climbed slowly east, higher and higher above the estuary on his left and nearer and nearer the sea, he found the way growing in difficulty; till he wondered how ever the dwellers in that disliked place managed to reach the world outside, and whether they came often to market in Arkham."
7256,"The first impulse of an innocent man would have been to announce the outrage, and to aid in identifying the ruffians."
7257,"He looked for some in a drawer, but found none."
7258,Nothing could be more complete than the alteration that had taken place in my feelings since the night of the appearance of the daemon.
7259,"I hate those Innsmouth folks myself, and I wouldn't care to go to their town."
7260,"They formed a complex and magnificent toy, richly chased and filigreed, and gleaming with jewels, which, even in the deficient light, I could not help perceiving were of high value."
7261,"It appeared to me sacrilege so soon to leave the repose, akin to death, of the house of mourning and to rush into the thick of life."
7262,"The moon no longer shone through the chinks and apertures above me, and with a sense of fateful alarm I heard the sinister and significant rumble of approaching thunder."
7263,The result of investigation sent an electric thrill of the intensest terror through the universal heart of man.
7264,"Elwood jumped up, turned on the lights, and rushed over to his guest's couch."
7265,"""One day, when the sun shone on the red leaves that strewed the ground and diffused cheerfulness, although it denied warmth, Safie, Agatha, and Felix departed on a long country walk, and the old man, at his own desire, was left alone in the cottage."
7266,I hadn't been able to give him much of my opinions I was too speechless with fright and loathing but I think he fully understood and felt highly complimented.
7267,"The body found at the Barrière du Roule, was found under such circumstances as to leave us no room for embarrassment upon this important point."
7268,"""I cannot let you see my patients,"" he said, ""just at present."
7269,"The trout, and some other varieties of fish, with which this pond seemed to be almost inconveniently crowded, had all the appearance of veritable flying fish."
7270,"In this state I was carried back and placed on a bed, hardly conscious of what had happened; my eyes wandered round the room as if to seek something that I had lost."
7271,"The tortures endured, however, were indubitably quite equal for the time, to those of actual sepulture."
7272,"If they can catch the fleeing soul when it leaves the body, they instantly flutter away chittering in daemoniac laughter; but if they fail, they subside gradually into a disappointed silence."
7273,"There was no sleep for either of them that night, but next day they both cut classes and drowsed."
7274,"Swarthy and sinister were most of the strangers, yet among them one might find a few faces like those who fashioned The Street and moulded its spirit."
7275,"""'How can I thank you, my best and only benefactor?"
7276,"On the evening of September nd the last major barrier gave way, and Dr. Armitage read for the first time a continuous passage of Wilbur Whateley's annals."
7277,"They were a little beyond the Seth Bishop place, but bent trees and hideously unmistakable tracks shewed what had passed by."
7278,"""Then go one limb higher."""
7279,"They seemed much surprised at my appearance, but instead of offering me any assistance, whispered together with gestures that at any other time might have produced in me a slight sensation of alarm."
7280,"Let us refer, for example, to the last instance but one, in which the combination; occurs not far from the end of the cipher."
7281,"That he was unique appeared so undeniable, that it was deemed impertinent to inquire wherein the uniquity consisted."
7282,It was found in the Bois de Boulogne at a vast distance from the scene of that butchery.
7283,"The peculiar spirit of the skies, if I mistake not greatly, made itself manifest, not only in the physical orb of the earth, but in the souls, imaginations, and meditations of mankind."
7284,"""Upon the resistance or, more properly, upon the support of an atmosphere, existing in the state of density imagined, I had, of course, entirely depended for the safety of my ultimate descent."
7285,But reflection returned with health.
7286,"You will wonder then, as I do, at the extent of his accomplishments, and the brilliancy of his talents."""
7287,"All along the hill people tell of the yellow day, when virulent and horrible fumes arose from the factory waste dumped in the Providence River, but I know how mistaken they are as to the source."
7288,"""The riddle, so far, was now unriddled."
7289,"We need houses to protect us from the seasons, and behold the materials with which we are provided; the growth of trees with their adornment of leaves; while rocks of stone piled above the plains variegate the prospect with their pleasant irregularity."
7290,The question arose as to where we should deposit him.
7291,"Therein were written many things concerning the world of dream, and among them was lore of a golden valley and a sacred grove with temples, and a high wall pierced by a little bronze gate."
7292,"And the cities of Cathuria are cinctured with golden walls, and their pavements also are of gold."
7293,"When at last I awaked, it was to discover myself half sucked into a slimy expanse of hellish black mire which extended about me in monotonous undulations as far as I could see, and in which my boat lay grounded some distance away."
7294,"Over the cities once more floated the Old Flag, companioned by the New Flag and by a plainer yet glorious Tri colour."
7295,"It was then that I saw the tumbledown fire station on my left, and noticed the red faced, bushy bearded, watery eyed old man in nondescript rags who sat on a bench in front of it talking with a pair of unkempt but not abnormal looking firemen."
7296,"The Tomb Legions When Dr. Herbert West disappeared a year ago, the Boston police questioned me closely."
7297,"They arrived at the age when they were sent to fulfil their destined situations in life; while I, an outcast, with none to lead or drive me forward, paused."
7298,"From this rod it would have been impossible for any one to reach the window itself, to say nothing of entering it."
7299,Night arrived; and with its shadows a heavy discomfort.
7300,"But, not trusting to their eyes, I examined with my own."
7301,"There is a false report very commonly reproduced in modern books prior to Von Schweinkopf's monumental Geschichte der Ostrogothen in Italien that Ibid was a Romanised Visigoth of Ataulf's horde who settled in Placentia about A.D. The contrary cannot be too strongly emphasised; for Von Schweinkopf, and since his time Littlewit and Bêtenoir, have shewn with irrefutable force that this strikingly isolated figure was a genuine Roman or at least as genuine a Roman as that degenerate and mongrelised age could produce of whom one might well say what Gibbon said of Boethius, ""that he was the last whom Cato or Tully could have acknowledged for their countryman."""
7302,"And so the prisoner toiled in the twilight, heaving the unresponsive remnants of mortality with little ceremony as his miniature Tower of Babel rose course by course."
7303,"They make a vast parade of measures; but, not unfrequently, these are so ill adapted to the objects proposed, as to put us in mind of Monsieur Jourdain's calling for his robe de chambre pour mieux entendre la musique."
7304,We do not believe that any reasonable objections can be urged against this solution of the Automaton Chess Player.
7305,When he was nineteen his mother died.
7306,"Between ten and eleven the streets are thronged, but not at so early a period as that designated."
7307,"Let me see why these notes are all hundreds bless my soul a hundred is too much to take fifty would be quite enough, I am sure ""Cast off there"" says the captain."
7308,"Soon after, when he was alone with me, he said, ""I have, doubtless, excited your curiosity, as well as that of these good people; but you are too considerate to make inquiries."""
7309,"Then in the shadowy solitude my longing for light grew so frantic that I could rest no more, and I lifted entreating hands to the single black ruined tower that reached above the forest into the unknown outer sky."
7310,It had been a vigorous man; a well dressed stranger just off the train on his way to transact some business with the Bolton Worsted Mills.
7311,Even Perdita was unable to understand me.
7312,"During our ride up to town, Adrian and I discussed and argued upon Raymond's conduct, and his falling off from the hopes of permanent excellence on his part, which he had before given us cause to entertain."
7313,"I contemplated the lake: the waters were placid; all around was calm; and the snowy mountains, 'the palaces of nature,' were not changed."
7314,"The rat it was there that is to say, it was somewhere."
7315,"But the paintings Kupris Astarte Astoreth a thousand and the same And Rafaelle has beheld them Yes, Rafaelle has been here, for did he not paint the ?"
7316,"I wondered what sights this placid youth might have seen in inaccessible spheres, and what he could relate if fully restored to life."
7317,And I dare enforce this request by relating how miserably I was betrayed into this net of fiery anguish and all my struggles to release myself: indeed if your soul were less pure and bright I would not attempt to exculpate myself to you; I should fear that if I led you to regard me with less abhorrence you might hate vice less: but in addressing you I feel as if I appealed to an angelic judge.
7318,I listened in an agony of superstitious terror but there was no repetition of the sound.
7319,"Through its promptings we act without comprehensible object; or, if this shall be understood as a contradiction in terms, we may so far modify the proposition as to say, that through its promptings we act, for the reason that we should not."
7320,Sometimes their scratching seemed not only furtive but deliberate.
7321,The one he had acquired in Greece; the other he had sacrificed to love.
7322,"For years they stole over the wall each month when they could, and by stealth performed sartain acts."
7323,One night I had a frightful dream in which I met my grandmother under the sea.
7324,It were madness to calculate upon another winter.
7325,"How exceedingly strange that the altar of Laughter should have survived all the others But in the present instance,"" he resumed, with a singular alteration of voice and manner, ""I have no right to be merry at your expense."
7326,"""This is barely possible,"" said Dupin."
7327,"Death fires danced over the tombs, revealing gruesome vistas, though queerly failing to cast any shadows."
7328,Had he actually slipped outside our sphere to points unguessed and unimaginable?
7329,"By a strange fatality Juliet alone escaped, and she to the last waited on her relatives, and smoothed the pillow of death."
7330,"Raymond had spoken, thoughtless of her presence, and she, poor child, heard with terror and faith the prophecy of his death."
7331,My wanderings were directed towards the valley of Chamounix.
7332,"I will be cool, persevering, and prudent."
7333,"Kuranes had awaked the very moment he beheld the city, yet he knew from his brief glance that it was none other than Celephaïs, in the Valley of Ooth Nargai beyond the Tanarian Hills, where his spirit had dwelt all the eternity of an hour one summer afternoon very long ago, when he had slipt away from his nurse and let the warm sea breeze lull him to sleep as he watched the clouds from the cliff near the village."
7334,"His parting words made a deep impression upon my heart, and I hope I shall always remember them with gratitude."
7335,"The room became pandemonium, and men screamed and howled in fright at the sinister being they had aroused."
7336,"He was a man of immense height, probably more than six feet, though his stooping shoulders sometimes belied this fact."
7337,"This Tranquillity was the more remarkable, because we had amongst us Gentlemen of very opposed Opinions."
7338,"At fourteen and fifteen I often thought that the time was come when I should commence my pilgrimage, which I had cheated my own mind into believing was my imperious duty: but a reluctance to quit my Aunt; a remorse for the grief which, I could not conceal from myself, I should occasion her for ever withheld me."
7339,"Worn out as we were, it was not in human nature to do more immediately."
7340,"The months following my discovery were spent in futile attempts to force the complicated padlock of the slightly open vault, and in carefully guarded inquiries regarding the nature and history of the structure."
7341,"I dared not die, but I might feign death, and thus escape from my comforters: they will believe me united to my father, and so indeed I shall be."
7342,"Through this work I obtained a cursory knowledge of history and a view of the several empires at present existing in the world; it gave me an insight into the manners, governments, and religions of the different nations of the earth."
7343,"These peculiarities of person appeared to cause him much annoyance, and he was continually alluding to them in a sort of half explanatory, half apologetic strain, which, when I first heard it, impressed me very painfully."
7344,Just as they galloped up the rising ground to the precipice a golden glare came somewhere out of the east and hid all the landscape in its effulgent draperies.
7345,"We ascended into my room, and the servant presently brought breakfast; but I was unable to contain myself."
7346,But contact was not in any degree dreaded; for the elements of all the comets were accurately known.
7347,A circumstance so remarkable cannot be accidental.
7348,"Justine, poor, good Justine, is innocent."""
7349,You dream that you can restore him?
7350,"""I see you are a pupil after my own heart."
7351,"His advice, moreover, was eminently practical; for he recommended a postponement of operations at the Martense mansion until we might become fortified with more detailed historical and geographical data."
7352,I clearly perceive that the infinity of matter is no dream.
7353,"""No; hang Abernethy"" ""To be sure hang him and welcome."
7354,All this she said with a charming air of naivete which enraptured while it grieved and convinced me.
7355,"The walls melted away, and I was swept by a black wind through gulfs of fathomless grey with the needle like pinnacles of unknown mountains miles below me."
7356,"Go, Devoted One, and return thus This is my curse, a daughter's curse: go, and return pure to thy child, who will never love aught but thee."
7357,"When tales fly thick in the grottoes of tritons, and conches in seaweed cities blow wild tunes learned from the Elder Ones, then great eager mists flock to heaven laden with lore, and oceanward eyes on the rocks see only a mystic whiteness, as if the cliff's rim were the rim of all earth, and the solemn bells of buoys tolled free in the aether of faery."
7358,Nothing of any consequence happened during the day.
7359,"This man, a vagabond, hunter, and trapper, had always been strange in the eyes of his primitive associates."
7360,"Fortunately, as I spoke my native language, Mr. Kirwin alone understood me; but my gestures and bitter cries were sufficient to affright the other witnesses."
7361,"""Come,"" I said, with decision, ""we will go back; your health is precious."
7362,"As inventions, we should regard them with simple abhorrence."
7363,Happiness is in its highest degree the sister of goodness.
7364,"""I see it I see it all."
7365,"Here I paused, I knew not why; but I remained some minutes with my eyes fixed on a coach that was coming towards me from the other end of the street."
7366,"Mamie's visit was frankly one of curiosity, and her subsequent tales did justice to her observations; but Zechariah came to lead a pair of Alderney cows which Old Whateley had bought of his son Curtis."
7367,"Yet after all, the sight was worse than I had dreaded."
7368,"I looked upon the scene before me upon the mere house, and the simple landscape features of the domain upon the bleak walls upon the vacant eye like windows upon a few rank sedges and upon a few white trunks of decayed trees with an utter depression of soul which I can compare to no earthly sensation more properly than to the after dream of the reveller upon opium the bitter lapse into everyday life the hideous dropping off of the veil."
7369,"It was good theory, but couldn't keep up indefinitely."
7370,"We feel it advisable only to state, in brief, that the result desired was brought to pass; and that the Prefect fulfilled punctually, although with reluctance, the terms of his compact with the Chevalier."
7371,"The most merciful thing in the world, I think, is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents."
7372,"But the whole thing was done with so much quietude so much nonchalance so much repose with so evident an air of the highest breeding, in short that nothing of mere effrontery was perceptible, and my sole sentiments were those of admiration and surprise."
7373,"Our party at length broke up; ""We are all dreaming this morning,"" said Ryland, ""it is as wise to discuss the probability of a visitation of the plague in our well governed metropolis, as to calculate the centuries which must escape before we can grow pine apples here in the open air."""
7374,"Wanderers in that happy valley Through two luminous windows saw Spirits moving musically To a lute's well tunéd law, Round about a throne, where sitting Porphyrogene In state his glory well befitting, The ruler of the realm was seen."
7375,"He had turned restlessly on the cot several times during the latter half of the first hour, but now he was breathing with unusual irregularity, occasionally heaving a sigh which held more than a few of the qualities of a choking moan."
7376,It was difficult to find an immediate remedy.
7377,"But I shall never forget the emotions of wonder and horror with which I gazed, when, leaping through these windows, and down among us pele mele, fighting, stamping, scratching, and howling, there rushed a perfect army of what I took to be Chimpanzees, Ourang Outangs, or big black baboons of the Cape of Good Hope."
7378,"I think that whoever nursed me must have been shockingly aged, since my first conception of a living person was that of something mockingly like myself, yet distorted, shrivelled, and decaying like the castle."
7379,For a long time he was obstinate.
7380,My sentiments were at once quieted and exalted.
7381,"I would really give fifty thousand francs to any one who would aid me in the matter."""
7382,"But I will endeavour to detail these bitter circumstances to you, my dear sister; and while I am wafted towards England and towards you, I will not despond."
7383,"Next would come the south windows, under the great low eaves on the side where he stood; and it must be said that he was more than uncomfortable as he thought of the detestable house on one side and the vacancy of upper air on the other."
7384,"It was my elder brother, and my heart leaped for joy, for I had made sure that he was overboard but the next moment all this joy was turned into horror for he put his mouth close to my ear, and screamed out the word 'Moskoe ström' ""No one ever will know what my feelings were at that moment."
7385,"When I reflected on the work I had completed, no less a one than the creation of a sensitive and rational animal, I could not rank myself with the herd of common projectors."
7386,I went as passenger having no other inducement than a kind of nervous restlessness which haunted me as a fiend.
7387,"Yet a feeling of awe, a breathless sentiment of wonder, a painful sense of the degradation of humanity, was introduced into every heart."
7388,"I was glad of that tide, for at high water the fishy smell might not be so bad."
7389,At these times he would shew a sardonic humour and make remarks which the folk of Sheehan's deemed foolish and irrational.
7390,"Innsmouth was rapidly becoming intolerable, and I turned down Paine Street toward the Square in the hope of getting some vehicle to take me to Arkham before the still distant starting time of that sinister bus."
7391,"My back was toward the fishy smelling sea, but he was facing it, and something or other had caused his wandering gaze to light on the low, distant line of Devil Reef, then shewing plainly and almost fascinatingly above the waves."
7392,I dwelt upon their peculiarities.
7393,"The wine flowed freely, and there were not wanting other and perhaps more dangerous seductions; so that the gray dawn had already faintly appeared in the east, while our delirious extravagance was at its height."
7394,"I cannot set my heart to a particular tune, or run voluntary changes on my will."
7395,"Yet let us go England is in her shroud, we may not enchain ourselves to a corpse."
7396,"Sometimes, as a psychological experiment, I would lead him on in these wanderings, and listen to his endless poetical quotations and tales of sunken ships."
7397,"In general, this motion is the universal thought of the universal mind."
7398,But something would have to be done about those rats.
7399,"Her kittens were quite lively, and so far evinced not the slightest sign of any uneasiness whatever."
7400,"What I did there I may not say, for I am not now sure of the reality of certain things; but I know that on the day after such a nocturnal ramble I would often astonish those about me with my knowledge of topics almost forgotten for many generations."
7401,But Romero did not reply.
7402,About nine at night he drifted homeward and stumbled into the ancient house.
7403,"Some of 'em have queer narrow heads with flat noses and bulgy, stary eyes that never seem to shut, and their skin ain't quite right."
7404,"And thus, too, it happened, perhaps, that before the last echoes of the last chime had utterly sunk into silence, there were many individuals in the crowd who had found leisure to become aware of the presence of a masked figure which had arrested the attention of no single individual before."
7405,"But the fact remained that on a summer night a bolt had come out of the heavens and left a dead village whose corpses were horribly mangled, chewed, and clawed."
7406,"The paper carried me back to the days of the thirteenth century, when the old castle in which I sat had been a feared and impregnable fortress."
7407,"Urged on by an impulse which I cannot definitely analyse, I scrambled with difficulty down the rocks and stood on the gentler slope beneath, gazing into the Stygian deeps where no light had yet penetrated."
7408,My tenderness and affection must soothe you; the society of Raymond's friends will be of more solace than these dreary speculations.
7409,This is his aim his object his end.
7410,"Here we used to remain until nearly time for slack water again, when we weighed and made for home."
7411,"His thinking processes, once so phlegmatic and logical, had become ineffaceably scarred; and it was pitiful to note his response to certain chance allusions such as ""Friday"", ""tomb"", ""coffin"", and words of less obvious concatenation."
7412,"The moans of the sick men were decidedly annoying; but since they did not appear to demoralise the rest of the crew, we did not resort to extreme measures."
7413,"I looked at Zann, and saw that he was past conscious observation."
7414,A small iron safe was discovered under the bed not under the bedstead.
7415,"Upon this I made an effort to get up, in order to put my threat into execution; but the ruffian just reached across the table very deliberately, and hitting me a tap on the forehead with the neck of one of the long bottles, knocked me back into the arm chair from which I had half arisen."
7416,The proper gratification of the sentiment he instinctively felt to lie in the creation of novel forms of Beauty.
7417,We put in movement every impulse of policy and money to redeem him from their hands.
7418,I cannot describe the tumult of emotions that arose within me as I read it.
7419,"I fear, my friend, that I shall render myself tedious by dwelling on these preliminary circumstances; but they were days of comparative happiness, and I think of them with pleasure."
7420,"I think we screamed ourselves as we stumbled frantically toward the town, though as we reached the outskirts we put on a semblance of restraint just enough to seem like belated revellers staggering home from a debauch."
7421,"They've ben telling things about Innsmouth whispering 'em, mostly for the last hundred years, I guess, and I gather they're more scared than anything else."
7422,"I got into the habit of calling on Pickman quite often, especially after I began making notes for a monograph on weird art."
7423,"A second thought passed, swift as an arrow, into her brain; she rushed to the window; and a flash of lightning shewed to her the expected vision, her lover in the shrubbery beneath; joy lent her strength to descend the stairs, to open the door, and then she fainted in his supporting arms."
7424,"Here and there the ruins of wharves jutted out from the shore to end in indeterminate rottenness, those farthest south seeming the most decayed."
7425,He has never viewed from any steeple the glories of a metropolis.
7426,"The spirit of elder days found a dwelling here, and we delighted to trace its footsteps."
7427,I have had long experience in these affairs.
7428,This is the most favourable period for travelling in Russia.
7429,"According to Mwanu, the grey city and the hybrid creatures were no more, having been annihilated by the warlike N'bangus many years ago."
7430,"""There was another circumstance which tended to restore my self possession; and this was the cessation of the wind, which could not reach us in our present situation for, as you saw yourself, the belt of surf is considerably lower than the general bed of the ocean, and this latter now towered above us, a high, black, mountainous ridge."
7431,I may there discover the wondrous power which attracts the needle and may regulate a thousand celestial observations that require only this voyage to render their seeming eccentricities consistent forever.
7432,"In the north it was worse the lesser population gradually declined, and famine and plague kept watch on the survivors, who, helpless and feeble, were ready to fall an easy prey into their hands."
7433,"Attaining distinction as a boy through his wonderful mentality, he won vast fame at the University of Wisconsin, and at the age of twenty three returned to Appleton to take up a professorship at Lawrence and to slip a diamond upon the finger of Appleton's fairest and most brilliant daughter."
7434,The dress immediately beneath the frock was of fine muslin; and from this a slip eighteen inches wide had been torn entirely out torn very evenly and with great care.
7435,Let us see what they say: Imprimus.
7436,"'Tis a queer book here, leave me git on my spectacles "" The old man fumbled among his rags, producing a pair of dirty and amazingly antique glasses with small octagonal lenses and steel bows."
7437,"Early in the morning Raymond came to me; intelligence had arrived that Adrian was dangerously ill, and it appeared impossible that his failing strength should surmount the disorder."
7438,He had come like a thief in the night.
7439,"As I have said before, the weird studies of Harley Warren were well known to me, and to some extent shared by me."
7440,"To be sure I arose from a sound slumber, with all my senses in confusion, to the contemplation of a very startling phenomenon, and one which, although expected, was not expected at the moment."
7441,"He beckoned me into a low, candle lit room with massive exposed rafters and dark, stiff, sparse furniture of the seventeenth century."
7442,"The true cause of the restriction is, perhaps, very different."
7443,Still a hundred or even two hundred miles an hour is slow travelling after all.
7444,The massy portals of the churches swung creaking on their hinges; and some few lay dead on the pavement.
7445,"They came from the east and the north, and directed their course without apparent motive, but unanimously towards our unhappy metropolis."
7446,"The phantasmal, unmentionable thing occurred one midnight late in March, , in a field hospital behind the lines at St. Eloi."
7447,"The extraordinary details which I am now called upon to make public, will be found to form, as regards sequence of time, the primary branch of a series of scarcely intelligible coincidences, whose secondary or concluding branch will be recognized by all readers in the late murder of Mary Cecila Rogers, at New York."
7448,"Before it had been a rumour; but now in words uneraseable, in definite and undeniable print, the knowledge went forth."
7449,"It was evident, however, that just at this moment the fellow in the steeple was doing something that he had no business to do with the clock."
7450,"The poor perceived that the rich possessed other means of preservation than those which could be partaken of by themselves, seclusion, and, as far as circumstances permitted, freedom from care."
7451,"I was now out of employment for some months, but at length succeeded, by dint of great interest, in procuring a situation in the Sham Post."
7452,"We are not very prudish, to be sure, here in the South do pretty much as we please enjoy life, and all that sort of thing, you know "" ""To be sure,"" said I, ""to be sure."""
7453,"Yet not the more could I define that sentiment, or analyze, or even steadily view it."
7454,Upon my mouldering bones there descended the coffin of Una.
7455,"Alludes to the frequent repetition of the phrase, la tendre Zaire, in the French tragedy of that name."
7456,"Answer me, I conjure you by our mutual happiness, with simple truth Do you not love another?"
7457,In this respect I was actuated by that habitual prudence which has ever been my predominating trait.
7458,"The great war was then at its very beginning, and the ocean forces of the Hun had not completely sunk to their later degradation; so that our vessel was made a legitimate prize, whilst we of her crew were treated with all the fairness and consideration due us as naval prisoners."
7459,I am its dupe no longer.
7460,"And dogs barked as the yellow light of small paned windows shone out at the farther turn, and the Pleiades twinkled across the open knoll where a great gambrel roof stood black against the dim west."
7461,"The old man's terror must have been extreme It grew louder, I say, louder every moment do you mark me well I have told you that I am nervous: so I am."
7462,"There are things about which it is better not to speculate, and all that I can say is that I hate the smell of ammonia, and grow faint at a draught of unusually cool air."
7463,Just before he made the plunge the violet light went out and left him in utter blackness.
7464,"For some time, apparently, the curious angles of Gilman's room had been having a strange, almost hypnotic effect on him; and as the bleak winter advanced he had found himself staring more and more intently at the corner where the down slanting ceiling met the inward slanting wall."
7465,"The door of the house from which these sounds proceeded was open, the upper rooms were illuminated as for a feast."
7466,"Then one night as I listened at the door I heard the shrieking viol swell into a chaotic babel of sound; a pandemonium which would have led me to doubt my own shaking sanity had there not come from behind that barred portal a piteous proof that the horror was real the awful, inarticulate cry which only a mute can utter, and which rises only in moments of the most terrible fear or anguish."
7467,"On her return, at about nine o'clock, she met a man who asked her if she had seen anything of the child who was lost."
7468,"The question naturally arises ""Why are so many employed, when a single candle, or, at farthest, two, would have been amply sufficient to afford the spectators a clear view of the board, in a room otherwise so well lit up as the exhibition room always is when, moreover, if we suppose the machine a pure machine, there can be no necessity for so much light, or indeed any light at all, to enable it to perform its operations and when, especially, only a single candle is placed upon the table of the antagonist?"""
7469,And Darkness and Decay and the Red Death held illimitable dominion over all.
7470,"The way in which Adrian had received his project for setting him up as a candidate for the Protectorship, and his replies, had already awakened in his mind, the view of the subject which we were now discussing."
7471,But the stroke of the pendulum already pressed upon my bosom.
7472,D and F are agreed that I cannot hold out beyond to morrow midnight; and I think they have hit the time very nearly.
7473,"Tillinghast had been watching me, and noted my puzzled expression."
7474,But this was not enough.
7475,"No watch was set, and the crew, consisting principally of Malays, stretched themselves deliberately upon deck."
7476,It is far better for your peace that you should be ignorant of my destination.
7477,"I saw it with perfect distinctness all a dull blue, with a hideous veil over it that chilled the very marrow in my bones; but I could see nothing else of the old man's face or person: for I had directed the ray as if by instinct, precisely upon the damned spot."
7478,"Everyone listened, and everyone was listening still when It lumbered slobberingly into sight and gropingly squeezed Its gelatinous green immensity through the black doorway into the tainted outside air of that poison city of madness."
7479,"Not that I had any real apprehension of its need, but that any symbol of security was welcome in an environment of this kind."
7480,"They might even hate each other; the creature who already lived loathed his own deformity, and might he not conceive a greater abhorrence for it when it came before his eyes in the female form?"
7481,"On the other hand, what more obvious and effectual method could there be of exciting a disbelief in the Automaton's being a pure machine, than by withholding such explicit declaration?"
7482,"He did not join as usual in the playful spirit of the rest; but, entering into conversation with Adrian and myself, by degrees we seceded from our companions, and Idris and Perdita only remained with the children."
7483,"The storm appeared to approach rapidly, and, on landing, I ascended a low hill, that I might observe its progress."
7484,The voice is termed by one witness 'harsh rather than shrill.'
7485,"Even the Providence Art Club, anxious to preserve its conservatism, had found him quite hopeless."
7486,"And, indeed, if ever she, the wan and the misty winged Ashtophet of idolatrous Egypt, presided, as they tell, over marriages ill omened, then most surely she presided over mine."
7487,"We call the supernal lights fixed, yet they wander about yonder plain, and if I look again where I looked an hour ago, the face of the eternal heavens is altered."
7488,Her voice grew more gentle grew more low yet I would not wish to dwell upon the wild meaning of the quietly uttered words.
7489,"Legrand, however, although evidently much disconcerted, wiped his brow thoughtfully and recommenced."
7490,"Before I depart I will give them to you; they will prove the truth of my tale; but at present, as the sun is already far declined, I shall only have time to repeat the substance of them to you."
7491,A certain greasiness about the fellow increased my dislike.
7492,"No unseemly sights were therefore discernible: the shops were in general open, the concourse of passengers in some degree kept up."
7493,"As to personal endowments, I am by no means deficient."
7494,"Besides, would not an escape from a dream loft bring him merely into a dream house an abnormal projection of the actual place he sought?"
7495,I was West's closest friend and only confidential assistant.
7496,"And now the memory has so far regained its dominion, that, in some measure, I am cognizant of my state."
7497,I held them in every light.
7498,"It was on the tenth day of July, , a day which the people of this part of the world will never forget for it was one in which blew the most terrible hurricane that ever came out of the heavens."
7499,"I screamed and struggled, and after a blankness was again in my attic room, sprawled flat over the five phosphorescent circles on the floor."
7500,"Many persons, I considered, are prone to estimate commodities in their possession however valueless to the then proprietor however troublesome, or distressing in direct ratio with the advantages to be derived by others from their attainment, or by themselves from their abandonment."
7501,"After a moment there came another soft rattling, and I knew that the room to the south of me was being entered."
7502,"That we bore electric lanterns, spades, and a curious coil of wire with attached instruments, I will even affirm; for these things all played a part in the single hideous scene which remains burned into my shaken recollection."
7503,"At once, I seemed to awake; I cast off the clinging sloth of the past months; earth assumed a new appearance, and my view of the future was suddenly made clear."
7504,"I say 'his wishes,' for that he meant to include this note book among the miscellaneous papers directed 'to be burnt,' I think there can be no manner of doubt."
7505,But in that instant of curiosity was born the madly unreasoning desire which has brought me to this hell of confinement.
7506,"The ground under one of the squatters' villages had caved in after a lightning stroke, destroying several of the malodorous shanties; but upon this property damage was superimposed an organic devastation which paled it to insignificance."
7507,"About four hours remained for conversation if I were to catch the eight o'clock coach for Arkham, and I began to dole out more liquor to the ancient tippler; meanwhile eating my own frugal lunch."
7508,"Were I now to commit an act which would annihilate my hopes, and pluck the regal garment from my mortal limbs, to clothe them in ordinary weeds, would this, think you, be an act of free will on my part?"""
7509,"Here a body kin see all they is to it I s'pose 'tis sinful, but ain't we all born an' livin' in sin?"
7510,"Brown Jenkin was rubbing itself with a kind of affectionate playfulness around the ankles of the black man, which the deep mud largely concealed."
7511,"Yet untill I find him I must force reason to keep her seat, and I pressed my forehead hard with my hands Oh do not leave me; or I shall forget what I am about instead of driving on as we ought with the speed of lightning they will attend to me, and we shall be too late."
7512,"The night was windless, hot, and cloudy; her load became too heavy for her; and one by one she threw away her loaves, still endeavouring to get along, though her hobbling fell into lameness, and her weakness at last into inability to move."
7513,"We lived as recluses; devoid of friends, alone, and without servants in a few rooms of an ancient manor house on a bleak and unfrequented moor; so that our doors were seldom disturbed by the knock of the visitor."
7514,From even the greatest of horrors irony is seldom absent.
7515,"The ossification had proceeded with very unusual rapidity; no sign of it had been discovered a month before, and the adhesion had only been observed during the three previous days."
7516,"From five to fifteen, he threatened me, hourly, with the House of Correction."
7517,"As time passed away I became more calm; misery had her dwelling in my heart, but I no longer talked in the same incoherent manner of my own crimes; sufficient for me was the consciousness of them."
7518,"I feel exquisite pleasure in dwelling on the recollections of childhood, before misfortune had tainted my mind and changed its bright visions of extensive usefulness into gloomy and narrow reflections upon self."
7519,There was none among the myriads of men that existed who would pity or assist me; and should I feel kindness towards my enemies?
7520,The instrumental performers were many and of superior talents.
7521,"Raymond sat among them, though while he entered into the spirit of the hour, his natural dignity never forsook him."
7522,"""The next morning Felix went out to his work, and after the usual occupations of Agatha were finished, the Arabian sat at the feet of the old man, and taking his guitar, played some airs so entrancingly beautiful that they at once drew tears of sorrow and delight from my eyes."
7523,"One moment we seized before our departure, to take leave of our beloved girls."
7524,The prospect was sublime.
7525,"Their light, in dying, enabled us just to perceive that a stranger had entered, about my own height, and closely muffled in a cloak."
7526,Would an architect be permitted to see the artist?
7527,Therefore it was not thrown in by murderers.
7528,"""I come to you,"" he said, ""only half assured that you will assist me in my project, but resolved to go through with it, whether you concur with me or not."
7529,"You have a fine nose, it is true; but then Bluddennuff has none."
7530,"The meditations were never pleasurable; and, at the termination of the reverie, the first cause, so far from being out of sight, had attained that supernaturally exaggerated interest which was the prevailing feature of the disease."
7531,"As I approached M. Valdemar I made a kind of half effort to influence his right arm into pursuit of my own, as I passed the latter gently to and fro above his person."
7532,"A coachman held the reins on the box, and a footman and page were in their places behind."
7533,"The guilty are allowed, by human laws, bloody as they are, to speak in their own defence before they are condemned."
7534,"I see him now, excellent and venerable old man His eyes wandered in vacancy, for they had lost their charm and their delight his Elizabeth, his more than daughter, whom he doted on with all that affection which a man feels, who in the decline of life, having few affections, clings more earnestly to those that remain."
7535,Mem must get rid of Bag no system at all.
7536,Where had they fled when the next morning I awoke?
7537,"My body was, but I had no breath to be, suspended; and but for the knot under my left ear which had the feel of a military stock I dare say that I should have experienced very little inconvenience."
7538,"I am not one of your enemies, I believed you guiltless, notwithstanding every evidence, until I heard that you had yourself declared your guilt."
7539,"I myself had just alighted from a litter, which the Illyrian bearers seemed to have brought in some haste from Calagurris, across the Iberus to the southward."
7540,"Even while I gazed, this current acquired a monstrous velocity."
7541,It stood like a huge writhing wall between us and the horizon.
7542,The blue lake and snow clad mountains they never change; and I think our placid home and our contented hearts are regulated by the same immutable laws.
7543,"There is the tone didactic, the tone enthusiastic, the tone natural all common place enough."
7544,"Dark, frail, and somewhat unkempt in aspect, he turned languidly at my knock and asked me my business without rising."
7545,Heard the voices in question.
7546,"Should I then, after all, prove to have been mistaken, I had in consequence nothing better to expect, as a finale to my adventure, than being dashed into atoms against the rugged surface of the satellite."
7547,We rest; a dream has power to poison sleep.
7548,"Through all the land of Mnar and the lands adjacent spread the tales of those who had fled from Sarnath, and caravans sought that accursed city and its precious metals no more."
7549,"Once commenced, it would quickly be achieved, and I might be restored to my family in peace and happiness."
7550,The fact that it had been thrust up the chimney would sufficiently account for these appearances.
7551,"As I thought of these things I looked out over the squalid sea of decaying roofs below me, now brightened by the beams of a moon not much past full."
7552,"As he spoke, his earnest eyes, fixed on me, seemed to read my very soul: my heart, my savage revengeful heart, felt the influence of sweet benignity sink upon it; while his thrilling voice, like sweetest melody, awoke a mute echo within me, stirring to its depths the life blood in my frame."
7553,"There were circumstances, moreover, which coupled with late events, gave an unearthly and portentous character to the mania of the rider, and to the capabilities of the steed."
7554,"The lightness of heart which had dressed them in masquerade habits, had decorated their tents, and assembled them in fantastic groups, appeared a sin against, and a provocative to, the awful destiny that had laid its palsying hand upon hope and life."
7555,"The seeming creatures which are now, throughout the universe, so perpetually springing into being, can only be considered as the mediate or indirect, not as the direct or immediate results of the Divine creative power."
7556,It was hard to conceive how all this beauty had been attained.
7557,"All in the immediate vicinity of the ship is the blackness of eternal night, and a chaos of foamless water; but, about a league on either side of us, may be seen, indistinctly and at intervals, stupendous ramparts of ice, towering away into the desolate sky, and looking like the walls of the universe."
7558,"Her coarse peasant dress, little consonant apparently with the refinement of feeling which her face expressed, yet in a strange manner accorded with it."
7559,"Then we sallied forth into the streets arm in arm, continuing the topics of the day, or roaming far and wide until a late hour, seeking, amid the wild lights and shadows of the populous city, that infinity of mental excitement which quiet observation can afford."
7560,"It is true that I have for five years been his closest friend, and a partial sharer of his terrible researches into the unknown."
7561,"In the greenest of our valleys, By good angels tenanted, Once a fair and stately palace Radiant palace reared its head."
7562,"The evening was warm and serene, and we prolonged our walk farther than usual."
7563,I shall from time to time continue this Journal.
7564,"What he wanted was not a thing which many persons want, but something connected with the peculiar branch of medical science which he had chosen quite clandestinely to follow, and in which he had achieved amazing and occasionally hideous results."
7565,"The entrance of Hecate, and the wild music that followed, took us out of this world."
7566,"And, when seen, there will be some to disbelieve, and some to doubt, and yet a few who will find much to ponder upon in the characters here graven with a stylus of iron."
7567,"But ours is that which went by the name of Antiochia Epidaphne, from its vicinity to the little village of Daphne, where stood a temple to that divinity."
7568,The change you might as well give to me I shall want some silver for the Post Office.
7569,Several circumstances occurred immediately after this fit of Wyatt which contributed to heighten the curiosity with which I was already possessed.
7570,Wouldn't even admit they'd ever ben any people on that island.
7571,The memory had lingered hideously all the more hideous because it was so secret.
7572,Then you must be blind.
7573,"So saying, he hastened away, vaulted on his horse, and with a gesture as if he gave me his hand to kiss, bade me another laughing adieu."
7574,"Then the voice of Warren in a pitch of wilder consternation: ""Carter for the love of God, put back the slab and get out of this if you can Quick leave everything else and make for the outside it's your only chance Do as I say, and don't ask me to explain"" I heard, yet was able only to repeat my frantic questions."
7575,"""I beg both your pardons but I can't be so much mistaken."
7576,All these shews of despair struck Perdita with affright.
7577,"The thing, it was averred, was biologically impossible to start with; merely another of those crazy country mutterings which Cotton Mather had been gullible enough to dump into his chaotic Magnalia Christi Americana, and so poorly authenticated that even he had not ventured to name the locality where the horror occurred."
7578,"Some small change indeed the progress of years brought here; and time, as it is wont, stamped the traces of mortality on our pleasures and expectations."
7579,"Now, of all words in the language, 'the' is most usual; let us see, therefore, whether there are not repetitions of any three characters, in the same order of collocation, the last of them being ."
7580,"Seeing a chair close at hand, for the use of customers, I threw myself doggedly into it, and, hardly knowing why, opened the pages of the first volume which came within my reach."
7581,"The picture seared into my soul is of one scene only, and the hour must have been long after midnight; for a waning crescent moon was high in the vaporous heavens."
7582,"To tear a piece from the interior, where no edge is presented, could only be effected by a miracle through the agency of thorns, and no one thorn could accomplish it."
7583,"The chest had been full to the brim, and we spent the whole day, and the greater part of the next night, in a scrutiny of its contents."
7584,"But although I, Oinos, felt that the eyes of the departed were upon me, still I forced myself not to perceive the bitterness of their expression, and gazing down steadily into the depths of the ebony mirror, sang with a loud and sonorous voice the songs of the son of Teios."
7585,"I read the histories of Greece and Rome, and of England's former periods, and I watched the movements of the lady of my heart."
7586,This indeed was the plague.
7587,"The fact is, the business is very simple indeed, and I make no doubt that we can manage it sufficiently well ourselves; but then I thought Dupin would like to hear the details of it, because it is so excessively odd."" ""Simple and odd,"" said Dupin."
7588,"This breeze, which has travelled from the regions towards which I am advancing, gives me a foretaste of those icy climes."
7589,"The men disdainfully repelled the idea of having deserted the defence of their city; and one, the youngest among them, in answer to the taunt of a sailor, exclaimed, ""Take it, Christian dogs take the palaces, the gardens, the mosques, the abode of our fathers take plague with them; pestilence is the enemy we fly; if she be your friend, hug her to your bosoms."
7590,It is then only from these two apartments that we have to seek issues.
7591,"""Do you cabal also against me,"" said he, laughing; ""and will you make common cause with Raymond, in dragging a poor visionary from the clouds to surround him with the fire works and blasts of earthly grandeur, instead of heavenly rays and airs?"
7592,She instructed her daughter in the tenets of her religion and taught her to aspire to higher powers of intellect and an independence of spirit forbidden to the female followers of Muhammad.
7593,His limbs were exceedingly long and emaciated.
7594,"I saw the close moonlit space where they would surge by, and had curious thoughts about the irredeemable pollution of that space."
7595,When I leave this place do not expect to hear from me: I must break all ties that at present exist.
7596,I was not within the vault.
7597,"He discoursed of Cimabué, Arpino, Carpaccio, and Argostino of the gloom of Caravaggio, of the amenity of Albano, of the colors of Titian, of the frows of Rubens, and of the waggeries of Jan Steen."
7598,"""Paul Dumas, physician, deposes that he was called to view the bodies about day break."
7599,"The grass was short, springy, sweet scented, and Asphodel interspersed."
7600,"There were buffoons, there were improvisatori, there were ballet dancers, there were musicians, there was Beauty, there was wine."
7601,"He had better, he thought, sprinkle flour within the room as well as outside the door though after all no further proof of his sleep walking was needed."
7602,"Upon arousing, I found by my side, as before, a loaf and a pitcher of water."
7603,"In this manner, the hand which is gloved and bent in a natural way, being brought directly above the piece to be moved, descends finally upon it, the fingers receiving it, in most cases, without difficulty."
7604,"When I went delirious at hearing that the hospital stood near the old churchyard on Central Hill, they sent me to St. Mary's Hospital in Arkham, where I could have better care."
7605,"My bill ran thus: Messrs. Cut Comeagain, Merchant Tailors."
7606,"For example, the floor was uncarpeted; in France, however, a carpet is frequently dispensed with."
7607,"He was clad in dressing gown and slippers, and had in his hands a revolver and an electric flashlight."
7608,"I soon, however, found that, perhaps on account of her Presburg education, she placed before me a number of those mystical writings which are usually considered the mere dross of the early German literature."
7609,"""Dear Madam,"" said Adrian, ""let me entreat you to see him, to cultivate his friendship."
7610,"When my guest was a little recovered I had great trouble to keep off the men, who wished to ask him a thousand questions; but I would not allow him to be tormented by their idle curiosity, in a state of body and mind whose restoration evidently depended upon entire repose."
7611,"And in the contour of the high forehead, and in the ringlets of the silken hair, and in the wan fingers which buried themselves therein, and in the sad musical tones of her speech, and above all oh, above all, in the phrases and expressions of the dead on the lips of the loved and the living, I found food for consuming thought and horror, for a worm that would not die."
7612,"For a moment I saw nothing save a myriad of tiny dancing lights, far, far before me."
7613,But while we were up I had thrown a quick glance around and that one glance was all sufficient.
7614,"Upon exhibition of ether he revived and was rapidly restored to health, and to the society of his friends from whom, however, all knowledge of his resuscitation was withheld, until a relapse was no longer to be apprehended."
7615,It is a bye street very lonely.
7616,Three years ago and on that day and hour it shone through the branches and leaves of the beech wood and its beams flickered upon the countenance of him whom I then beheld for the last time.
7617,"It was in a deep, damp hollow, overgrown with rank grass, moss, and curious creeping weeds, and filled with a vague stench which my idle fancy associated absurdly with rotting stone."
7618,"If, moreover, a body has risen to the surface through firing of cannon, it will not 'sink again if let alone,' until decomposition has so far progressed as to permit the escape of the generated gas."
7619,I was born in England.
7620,"At the same moment bonfires blazed out on all the peaks ahead, so that terror seemed to lurk equally well before and behind us."
7621,"The theatres were open and thronged; dance and midnight festival were frequented in many of these decorum was violated, and the evils, which hitherto adhered to an advanced state of civilization, were doubled."
7622,"Ryland was a man of obscure birth and of immense wealth, inherited from his father, who had been a manufacturer."
7623,"Very sleek and fat did the cats appear, and sonorous with purring content."
7624,"""I have lost that which adorned and dignified my life; that which linked me to other men."
7625,"""I swear,"" he cried, ""by the sun, and by the blue sky of heaven, and by the fire of love that burns my heart, that if you grant my prayer, while they exist you shall never behold me again."
7626,"Perspiration burst from every pore, and stood in cold big beads upon my forehead."
7627,"""Did your Luther take accaount o' whar them big tracks led tew?"
7628,"Something of the benevolent fanatic seemed to reside in him, and he rambled on almost garrulously as he sounded my chest and mixed a suitable draught of drugs fetched from the smaller laboratory room."
7629,"That at the eastern extremity was hung, for example, in blue and vividly blue were its windows."
7630,"You will smile at my allusion, but I will disclose a secret."
7631,He told us what had become of the eighty three lost tragedies of Æschylus; of the fifty four orations of Isæus; of the three hundred and ninety one speeches of Lysias; of the hundred and eighty treatises of Theophrastus; of the eighth book of the conic sections of Apollonius; of Pindar's hymns and dithyrambics; and of the five and forty tragedies of Homer Junior.
7632,"As well might Cleopatra have worn as an ornament the vinegar which contained her dissolved pearl, as I be content with the love that Raymond can now offer me."""
7633,That it could not come from any known myth or romance was made especially clear by the fact that the unfortunate lunatic expressed himself only in his own simple manner.
7634,"Just before day, we were all somewhat alarmed at some odd noises and concussions in the balloon, accompanied with the apparent rapid subsidence of the whole machine."
7635,"""And the motto?"" ""Nemo me impune lacessit."""
7636,"In a word, upon the breaking up of the play, I traced the lady to her residence, noted the address, and the next morning sent her a full and elaborate letter, in which I poured out my whole heart."
7637,"When we arrived, after a little rest, he led me over the house and pointed out to me the rooms which my mother had inhabited."
7638,"Every day added to his difficulties; the arrival of fresh vessels with emigrants, the total cessation of commerce, the starving multitude that thronged around the palace of the Protectorate, were circumstances not to be tampered with."
7639,"They talked of taking London, conquering England calling to mind the long detail of injuries which had for many years been forgotten."
7640,"Henceforward I haunted the tomb each night; seeing, hearing, and doing things I must never reveal."
7641,"Perhaps he did not know, or perhaps he knew and did not dare to tell."
7642,"Learn from me, if not by my precepts, at least by my example, how dangerous is the acquirement of knowledge and how much happier that man is who believes his native town to be the world, than he who aspires to become greater than his nature will allow."
7643,"Saying this, he seated himself at a small table, on which were a pen and ink, but no paper."
7644,Never mark me never will I leave this spot.
7645,But to return to the 'Diary' of Sir Humphrey Davy.
7646,"Not one of her relations, for they lay glaring on her with stony eyes."
7647,"I pitied him from the bottom of my heart but could not, for that reason, quite forgive his incommunicativeness in the matter of the ""Last Supper."""
7648,"With the dawn I descended the tower and looked for wreckage upon the rocks, but what I found was only this: a strange dead bird whose hue was as of the azure sky, and a single shattered spar, of a whiteness greater than that of the wave tips or of the mountain snow."
7649,"One side of the cobblestoned open space was the straight line of the river; the other was a semicircle of slant roofed brick buildings of about the period, from which several streets radiated away to the southeast, south, and southwest."
7650,"She tried to reason with him, and finding him inflexible, learned to hate him."
7651,She knew Uncle Chris well enough to expect such things of the Carter blood.
7652,"""I entreat you to call to your remembrance our first happy life on the shores of Loch Lomond."
7653,"I turned my electric flashlight on him and found his face averted, so rising and crossing to the other side of the cot, I again flashed the light to see if he seemed in any pain."
7654,"The accounts furnished him, however distorted, of a great and wise nation asserting its right to govern itself, excited his admiration: in early days he became a republican from principle."
7655,"The Athenians saw in him, not as heretofore, the heroic boy or desperate man, who was ready to die for them; but the prudent commander, who for their sakes was careful of his life, and could make his own warrior propensities second to the scheme of conduct policy might point out."
7656,My first observation was by way of opening a masked battery.
7657,"The rest had stuck sullenly to their ancestral mansion, becoming more and more clannish and taciturn, yet developing a nervous responsiveness to the frequent thunderstorms."
7658,He used to make shuddering conjectures about the possible actions of a headless physician with the power of reanimating the dead.
7659,"After many aeons men came to the land of Mnar; dark shepherd folk with their fleecy flocks, who built Thraa, Ilarnek, and Kadatheron on the winding river Ai."
7660,"My sensations had by this time become distinct, and my mind received every day additional ideas."
7661,"At nine on Sunday, the populace are chiefly within doors preparing for church."
7662,"In my enthusiasm I became nearly as idiotic and sentimental as poor Klenze, and was very tardy in noticing that the southward current had ceased at last, allowing the U to settle slowly down upon the sunken city as an aëroplane settles upon a town of the upper earth."
7663,"At that time a party made investigations, finding the house deserted and partly in ruins."
7664,I suffered myself to use intemperate language to my wife.
7665,"If mere existence, and not happiness, had been the final end of our being, what need of the profuse luxuries which we enjoy?"
7666,"I remarked that, while all the witnesses agreed in supposing the gruff voice to be that of a Frenchman, there was much disagreement in regard to the shrill, or, as one individual termed it, the harsh voice."
7667,"Not far from my cottage was a small cluster of pines the only trees to be seen for many miles: I had a path cut through the furze from my door to this little wood, from whose topmost branches the birds saluted the rising sun and awoke me to my daily meditation."
7668,I was nearly unnerved at my proximity to a nameless thing at the bottom of a pit.
7669,"The poison was not having much effect, for scratchings and scurryings in the walls were virtually undiminished."
7670,"Now, uncle, all that Kate and myself wish at present, is that you would oblige us with your advice as as regards the time you know, uncle in short, when will it be most convenient for yourself, that the wedding shall shall come off, you know?"" ""Come off, you scoundrel what do you mean by that?"
7671,"VALDEMAR I received this note within half an hour after it was written, and in fifteen minutes more I was in the dying man's chamber."
7672,I have already described the unnatural curiosity which had taken the place of my original terrors.
7673,"Once he met some friends who remarked how oddly sunburned he looked, but he did not tell them of his walk."
7674,"Once for me, you relinquished the prospect of a crown."
7675,"The man was clad in very ancient garments, and had about him an unplaceable nimbus of sea lore and dreams of tall galleons."
7676,"And oh Jupiter, and every one of the gods and goddesses, little and big what what what what had become of her teeth?"
7677,"When she again lived, it was only to weep and sigh."
7678,"Was born in the neighborhood, and has always resided there."
7679,"""Und you acknowledge tat you pe te blind dronk and te vool?"""
7680,"They included not only a repetition of what he had formerly dreamed, but touched wildly on a gigantic thing ""miles high"" which walked or lumbered about."
7681,"The other limb, confined by no such fetter, stuck off from the body at right angles, causing the whole loose and rattling frame to dangle and twirl about at the caprice of every occasional puff of wind which found its way into the apartment."
7682,"The disorders of the room had, as usual, been suffered to exist."
7683,I shuddered as the man grew colloquial and with familiar speech of another day.
7684,"No one can conceive the variety of feelings which bore me onwards, like a hurricane, in the first enthusiasm of success."
7685,"And why Harley Warren did not return, he or his shade or some nameless thing I cannot describe alone can tell."
7686,I shall never see the snows of another winter I do believe that I shall never again feel the vivifying warmth of another summer sun; and it is in this persuasion that I begin to write my tragic history.
7687,"I told the captain my fears; but he paid no attention to what I said, and left me without deigning to give a reply."
7688,"In such surroundings the mind loses its perspective; time and space become trivial and unreal, and echoes of a forgotten prehistoric past beat insistently upon the enthralled consciousness."
7689,What mainly troubled me was that the myriad footfalls made no sound and set up no echoes.
7690,"Voodoo orgies multiply in Hayti, and African outposts report ominous mutterings."
7691,"""And what is the difficulty now?"""
7692,"But the Marchesa She will now receive her child she will press it to her heart she will cling to its little form, and smother it with her caresses."
7693,Still thou canst listen to me and grant me thy compassion.
7694,"Let us examine, each by each, the possible means of egress."
7695,"Then, slowly advancing to meet the Comte, he pronounced in dull yet terrible accents the curse that ever afterward haunted the house of C ."
7696,"Amidst it all he shewed some trace of the pride later noticed in his daughter, and what he said of the child's paternity was remembered by many of his hearers years afterward."
7697,"One night I espied upon the deck a man, bearded and robed, and he seemed to beckon me to embark for fair unknown shores."
7698,"I breathed, however, at every moment, with more and more difficulty, and each inhalation was attended with a troublesome spasmodic action of the chest."
7699,"My rage was unbounded, yet my German sense forbade me to venture unprepared into an utterly black interior which might prove the lair of some indescribable marine monster or a labyrinth of passages from whose windings I could never extricate myself."
7700,"In this I finally succeeded partly by selling enough of my household furniture to satisfy a moiety of their claim, and partly by a promise of paying the balance upon completion of a little project which I told them I had in view, and for assistance in which I solicited their services."
7701,"The epidemic and riots of were very sparsely treated, as if they formed a discredit to the county."
7702,"The soft, stealthy, imaginary footsteps in the sealed loft above were unnerving."
7703,"I saw few human beings besides them, and if any other happened to enter the cottage, their harsh manners and rude gait only enhanced to me the superior accomplishments of my friends."
7704,"Elwood, whose thoughts on the entire episode are sometimes almost maddening, came back to college the next autumn and graduated in the following June."
7705,"He did not press me to remain, but, as I departed, he shook my hand with even more than his usual cordiality."
7706,"Parker slipped as the other three were plunging frenziedly over endless vistas of green crusted rock to the boat, and Johansen swears he was swallowed up by an angle of masonry which shouldn't have been there; an angle which was acute, but behaved as if it were obtuse."
7707,"And their fear and dismay increased when they searched the fallen apartment; for of the gentle Musides, and of the marvellously fashioned image of Tyché, no trace could be discovered."
7708,"I made haste, hereupon, to nod my head twice once in the negative, meaning thereby that I would prefer not taking the other bottle at present and once in the affirmative, intending thus to imply that I was sober and had positively come to my senses."
7709,Next day he would make some very guarded inquiries and perhaps see the nerve specialist.
7710,We were soon joined by Elizabeth.
7711,"Just as quietly, too, he walked toward the door, locked it and put the key in his pocket."
7712,"The account which he gave of his expedition, and of the events which had detained him, was a singular one indeed."
7713,"While thus engaged, however, a loud report, as if of a pistol, was heard immediately beneath the windows of the hotel, and was succeeded by a series of fearful screams, and the shoutings of a terrified mob."
7714,"But neither this assurance, nor the speedy convalescence of our child could restore her, even to the portion of peace she before enjoyed."
7715,"The title of the picture was, ""Holmes, Lowell, and Longfellow Lie Buried in Mount Auburn""."
7716,"I knew that I must travel in a southwesterly direction to reach my destination, but the sun was my only guide."
7717,Wherefore should I see her?
7718,"Or, if he begins to bluster, you may be down upon him with insomnia Jovis, reveries of Jupiter a phrase which Silius Italicus see here applies to thoughts pompous and inflated."
7719,It was a passion that had grown with his growth; it had become entwined with every faculty and every sentiment and only to be lost with life.
7720,"It was not as in summer time, when each hour might bring the dreaded fate until summer, we felt sure; and this certainty, short lived as it must be, yet for awhile satisfied her maternal tenderness."
7721,I knew myself when I renounced it.
7722,"I compassionated him and sometimes felt a wish to console him, but when I looked upon him, when I saw the filthy mass that moved and talked, my heart sickened and my feelings were altered to those of horror and hatred."
7723,Its character stupefied me with astonishment.
7724,"I was not, of course, at that time aware that this apparent paradox was occasioned by the center of the visual area being less susceptible of feeble impressions of light than the exterior portions of the retina."
7725,"Indeed, I could see that my uncle had thought deeply on the subject, and that he was glad of my own interest an open minded and sympathetic interest which enabled him to discuss with me matters at which others would merely have laughed."
7726,The general shape of the prison was square.
7727,All this I must acknowledge.
7728,"Was surprised at finding the rim of ice at a very moderate distance, and an immense field of the same material stretching away off to the horizon in the north."
7729,"A feeling of devotion, of duty, of a high and steady purpose, elevated me; a strange joy filled my heart."
7730,"The ground gets higher, and the brier bordered stone walls press closer and closer against the ruts of the dusty, curving road."
7731,"The inhabitants of the smaller towns left their houses, pitched tents in the fields, wandering separate from each other careless of hunger or the sky's inclemency, while they imagined that they avoided the death dealing disease."
7732,"It is not pestilence by the God that lives it is not either plague or impending danger that makes us, like birds in harvest time, terrified by a scarecrow, abstain from the ready prey it is base superstition And thus the aim of the valiant is made the shuttlecock of fools; the worthy ambition of the high souled, the plaything of these tamed hares But yet Stamboul shall be ours By my past labours, by torture and imprisonment suffered for them, by my victories, by my sword, I swear by my hopes of fame, by my former deserts now awaiting their reward, I deeply vow, with these hands to plant the cross on yonder mosque"" ""Dearest Raymond"" interrupted Perdita, in a supplicating accent."
7733,"The engravings were indeed interesting, drawn wholly from imagination and careless descriptions, and represented negroes with white skins and Caucasian features; nor would I soon have closed the book had not an exceedingly trivial circumstance upset my tired nerves and revived my sensation of disquiet."
7734,"But if, in the first instance, there had occurred something which occasioned me surprise, in the second, this surprise became elevated into astonishment; and this astonishment was profound was extreme indeed I may say it was horrific."
7735,"Unfeeling, heartless creator You had endowed me with perceptions and passions and then cast me abroad an object for the scorn and horror of mankind."
7736,"We know things, he said, only through our five senses or our religious intuitions; wherefore it is quite impossible to refer to any object or spectacle which cannot be clearly depicted by the solid definitions of fact or the correct doctrines of theology preferably those of the Congregationalists, with whatever modifications tradition and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle may supply."
7737,"The sound drives him mad, and, accordingly, pulling out his tablets, he gives a record of his sensations."
7738,"No flowers lifted up their dew laden cups to meet the dawn; the dry grass had withered on the plains; the burning fields of air were vacant of birds; the cicale alone, children of the sun, began their shrill and deafening song among the cypresses and olives."
7739,"As before, he dreamed first of the village that was asleep or dead, and of the abyss down which one must float silently; then the rift appeared again, and he beheld the glittering minarets of the city, and saw the graceful galleys riding at anchor in the blue harbour, and watched the gingko trees of Mount Aran swaying in the sea breeze."
7740,Yet nothing whatever happened to Gilman till about the time of the fever.
7741,"He must have foreseen, I reflected, the secret investigations of his premises."
7742,"""This is the last time for you, old bird"" he exclaimed furiously."
7743,"""Nobody around here or in Arkham or Ipswich will have anything to do with 'em, and they act kind of offish themselves when they come to town or when anyone tries to fish on their grounds."
7744,My countenance was painted with the hues of ill health and vexation.
7745,"This lakelet was, perhaps, a hundred yards in diameter at its widest part."
7746,Thus you may tell these characters immediately by the nature of their occupations.
7747,"You shall accept the little toy which I now hold in my hand, and which, though admirable as an aid to vision, is really of no very immense value as a gem."
7748,"They had played together as children, been the confidants of each other's little secrets, mutual aids and consolers in difficulty and sorrow."
7749,"Whenever the morgue proved inadequate, two local negroes attended to this matter, and they were seldom questioned."
7750,"Without making any effectual resistance, I suffered myself to be placed between two gentlemen of colossal dimensions; while a third, of a size larger, requesting pardon for the liberty he was about to take, threw himself upon my body at full length, and falling asleep in an instant, drowned all my guttural ejaculations for relief, in a snore which would have put to blush the roarings of the bull of Phalaris."
7751,"""I will most readily accompany you to his abode,"" said the lady, ""not that I wish that either of us should unburthen ourselves of our debt, which, being no less than your life, must remain unpayable ever."
7752,I don't have to tell you why a Fuseli really brings a shiver while a cheap ghost story frontispiece merely makes us laugh.
7753,"A number of people from North America, the relics of that populous continent, had set sail for the East with mad desire of change, leaving their native plains for lands not less afflicted than their own."
7754,"If your wish is to become really a man of science and not merely a petty experimentalist, I should advise you to apply to every branch of natural philosophy, including mathematics."""
7755,"Out of the fungus ridden earth steamed up a vaporous corpse light, yellow and diseased, which bubbled and lapped to a gigantic height in vague outlines half human and half monstrous, through which I could see the chimney and fireplace beyond."
7756,"Concealment is utter folly on my part, for the people will not see."
7757,"When night came on and brought sleep with it, I was in the greatest fear lest my fire should be extinguished."
7758,"He was unconscious, having fallen in a kind of convulsion which imparted to his slight black clad body a strange rigidity."
7759,Evadne now related the tale of her misfortunes.
7760,I found Raymond and Perdita together.
7761,The house then dissolved.
7762,"""Never mind"" cries the gentleman on shore, who has been examining his own pocket book for the last minute or so ""never mind I can fix it here is a fifty on the Bank of North America throw the book."""
7763,"The form near me seemed to feel a change also, for it gradually brought its discourse toward a conclusion, and itself prepared to quit the scene; fading from my sight at a rate somewhat less rapid than that of the other objects."
7764,"It should be a solitary house on a wide plain near no other habitation: where I could behold the whole horizon, and wander far without molestation from the sight of my fellow creatures."
7765,When I had entered the room I had shut the door behind me.
7766,"After that the scene was almost wholly kaleidoscopic, and in the jumble of sights, sounds, and unidentified sense impressions I felt that I was about to dissolve or in some way lose the solid form."
7767,The yellowed county records containing her testimony and that of her accusers were so damnably suggestive of things beyond human experience and the descriptions of the darting little furry object which served as her familiar were so painfully realistic despite their incredible details.
7768,"The crowd stirred uneasily, recalling that this sprayer was expected to give the unseen horror a moment of visibility."
7769,"The margin of the river, and of the many dazzling rivulets that glided through devious ways into its channel, as well as the spaces that extended from the margins away down into the depths of the streams until they reached the bed of pebbles at the bottom, these spots, not less than the whole surface of the valley, from the river to the mountains that girdled it in, were carpeted all by a soft green grass, thick, short, perfectly even, and vanilla perfumed, but so besprinkled throughout with the yellow buttercup, the white daisy, the purple violet, and the ruby red asphodel, that its exceeding beauty spoke to our hearts in loud tones, of the love and of the glory of God."
7770,"We had, to be sure, nearly every day a quarrel in which, yielding me publicly the palm of victory, he, in some manner, contrived to make me feel that it was he who had deserved it; yet a sense of pride on my part, and a veritable dignity on his own, kept us always upon what are called ""speaking terms,"" while there were many points of strong congeniality in our tempers, operating to awake me in a sentiment which our position alone, perhaps, prevented from ripening into friendship."
7771,I approached the artist and turned up my nose.
7772,"But the feverishness still hung on, and the whines of the loomfixer were an unnerving influence."
7773,Several individuals were arrested and discharged.
7774,"Perdita was all kindness and attention to her lord; but she was silent, and beyond words sad."
7775,His agitation is represented as so excessive that the officers had not the slightest doubt of his guilt.
7776,"I tenderly love these friends; I have, unknown to them, been for many months in the habits of daily kindness towards them; but they believe that I wish to injure them, and it is that prejudice which I wish to overcome.'"
7777,"Everybody knows how they are managed, since Dr. Moneypenny explained it."
7778,"Poor John His Son fared better, I think, and was made a Baronet."
7779,"In our boat, upon my native lake, beside the streams and the pale bordering poplars in valley and over hill, my crook thrown aside, a nobler flock to tend than silly sheep, even a flock of new born ideas, I read or listened to Adrian; and his discourse, whether it concerned his love or his theories for the improvement of man, alike entranced me."
7780,"Two years passed in this manner, during which I paid no visit to Geneva, but was engaged, heart and soul, in the pursuit of some discoveries which I hoped to make."
7781,"I should have been much more so, however, had not long experience advised me not to trust, with too implicit a reliance, the enthusiastic descriptions of my friend, the artist, when indulging in comments upon the loveliness of woman."
7782,"In Europe, as yet, the most noticeable results have been a rise of two hundred per cent. in the price of lead, and nearly twenty five per cent."
7783,Of this church the principal of our school was pastor.
7784,"For the door and windows of the undersea temple hewn from the rocky hill were vividly aglow with a flickering radiance, as from a mighty altar flame far within."
7785,"Physicians were unable to find any visible disorder, but concluded after perplexed debate that some obscure lesion of the heart, induced by the brisk ascent of so steep a hill by so elderly a man, was responsible for the end."
7786,"""And the new system is one of your own invention?"""
7787,"She spoke again, and now more frequently and pertinaciously, of the sounds of the slight sounds and of the unusual motions among the tapestries, to which she had formerly alluded."
7788,The body of Mademoiselle L'Espanaye was so firmly wedged in the chimney that it could not be got down until four or five of the party united their strength.
7789,"""I wish,"" cried she, ""that I were to die with you; I cannot live in this world of misery."""
7790,"But, for the inconceivable wealth in the actual possession of the young heir, these objects and all ordinary objects were felt to be inadequate."
7791,"It was only after the announcement that Le Bon had been imprisoned, that he asked me my opinion respecting the murders."
7792,"Her conversation was full of pointed remark and discernment; in her pleasant alcove, redolent with sweetest flowers, adorned by magnificent casts, antique vases, and copies of the finest pictures of Raphael, Correggio, and Claude, painted by herself, I fancied myself in a fairy retreat untainted by and inaccessible to the noisy contentions of politicians and the frivolous pursuits of fashion."
7793,"Thus I shuddered at self murder as the most decided of atrocities while the tabby cat purred strenuously upon the rug, and the very water dog wheezed assiduously under the table, each taking to itself much merit for the strength of its lungs, and all obviously done in derision of my own pulmonary incapacity."
7794,"My heart was full, and I did not answer him, but as I proceeded, I weighed the various arguments that he had used and determined at least to listen to his tale."
7795,"The panic struck appeared of more injury, than disease and its natural concomitants."
7796,Once I was myself a decorist; but that sublimation of folly has palled upon my soul.
7797,"Collins and First Mate Green, were killed; and the remaining eight under Second Mate Johansen proceeded to navigate the captured yacht, going ahead in their original direction to see if any reason for their ordering back had existed."
7798,"Our carousals here were many, and boisterous, and long, and never unfruitful of events."
7799,"The scenes that followed, convinced her that she had not yet fathomed the obscure gulph into which she had plunged."
7800,"And later, in still summer rains on the steep roofs of poets, the clouds scatter bits of those dreams, that men shall not live without rumour of old, strange secrets, and wonders that planets tell planets alone in the night."
7801,I was possessed with a passion to discover.
7802,"Her father, though of high rank, had in the end dissipated his fortune, and even destroyed his reputation and influence through a course of dissolute indulgence."
7803,"Nov. th It is only four o'clock; but it is winter and the sun has already set: there are no clouds in the clear, frosty sky to reflect its slant beams, but the air itself is tinged with a slight roseate colour which is again reflected on the snow that covers the ground."
7804,"Some few of the Lords Lieutenant who remained, endeavoured to collect the militia but the ranks were vacant, panic seized on all, and the opposition that was made only served to increase the audacity and cruelty of the enemy."
7805,"Eschew, in this case, big words; get them as small as possible, and write them upside down."
7806,Do you not perceive that the animal has the visage of a man?
7807,"At length, being avid for new strange things and held back by neither the Kingsporter's fear nor the summer boarder's usual indolence, Olney made a very terrible resolve."
7808,"But, to be brief, I must have my reward."
7809,"Such were the strange and incredible events, that finally brought about my union with the sister of my best friend, with my adored Idris."
7810,It is one of those adversities which hurt instead of purifying the heart; for it is so intense a misery that it hardens dulls the feelings.
7811,"While he spoke, the lady Madeline for so was she called passed slowly through a remote portion of the apartment, and, without having noticed my presence, disappeared."
7812,"Until lately, the bare supposition of such a thing was considered heretical."
7813,"""And the man sat upon the rock, and leaned his head upon his hand, and looked out upon the desolation."
7814,"My progress was unimpeded, and no fresh sound arose to hint that I had been spied."
7815,"Suddenly, the color fled, the pulsation ceased, the lips resumed the expression of the dead, and, in an instant afterward, the whole body took upon itself the icy chilliness, the livid hue, the intense rigidity, the sunken outline, and all the loathsome peculiarities of that which has been, for many days, a tenant of the tomb."
7816,"He had heard my story with that half kind of belief that is given to a tale of spirits and supernatural events; but when he was called upon to act officially in consequence, the whole tide of his incredulity returned."
7817,"Now my tears are dried; the glow has faded from my cheeks, and with a few words of farewell to you, Woodville, I close my work: the last that I shall perform."
7818,"A single step cannot be taken without M. Beauvais; for, go which way you will, you run against him...."
7819,"Clearly, in the eyes of the educated, Innsmouth was merely an exaggerated case of civic degeneration."
7820,"""To you, Lionel, I entrust your sister and her child."
7821,"That night he slept on a couch which Elwood had had the landlord bring to the second story room, and for the first time in weeks was wholly free from disquieting dreams."
7822,"And the shepherd, hearing, looked long and strangely at Iranon, as if recalling something very far away in time, and noted each line of the stranger's face, and his golden hair, and his crown of vine leaves."
7823,"With the numerous soldiers of Asia, with all of warlike stores, ships, and military engines, that wealth and power could command, the Turks at once resolved to crush an enemy, which creeping on by degrees, had from their stronghold in the Morea, acquired Thrace and Macedonia, and had led their armies even to the gates of Constantinople, while their extensive commercial relations gave every European nation an interest in their success."
7824,"In truth the masquerade license of the night was nearly unlimited; but the figure in question had out Heroded Herod, and gone beyond the bounds of even the prince's indefinite decorum."
7825,"The delusion, however, faded rapidly as it came; and I mention it at all but to define the day of the last conversation I there held with my singular namesake."
7826,"He called for the people of the house, but could learn nothing from them, except that they knew nothing."
7827,"The ""Hum Drum"" gave him a dressing after this fashion: ""'Oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, has sent us a long tirade concerning a bedlamite whom he styles 'Ugolino,' who had a great many children that should have been all whipped and sent to bed without their suppers."
7828,Suddenly the broad disk of the moon arose and shone full upon his ghastly and distorted shape as he fled with more than mortal speed.
7829,"We are neither cowards nor fatalists; but, believing that God has placed the means for our preservation in our own hands, we will use those means to our utmost."
7830,"He therefore accepted for her, and persuaded her to accede to, a proposal of marriage, from a wealthy Greek merchant settled at Constantinople."
7831,"The wall was high, and all the gates were locked; but moving a pile of boxes in a corner I managed to gain the top and cling to the great stone urn set there."
7832,"I was delighted when I first discovered that a pleasant sound, which often saluted my ears, proceeded from the throats of the little winged animals who had often intercepted the light from my eyes."
7833,"As soon as the torch, which I lowered into the repellent depths, burned freely and steadily, I commenced my descent."
7834,"From the circumstances of her birth and education, Idris would have been better fitted for the formulae of ceremony; but the very ease which accompanied such actions with her, arising from habit, rendered them tedious; while, with every drawback, Perdita evidently enjoyed her situation."
7835,"Now, all such reasoning and from such data must, of course, be simply analogical."
7836,"The negro obeyed him promptly, and apparently with but little trouble; ascending higher and higher, until no glimpse of his squat figure could be obtained through the dense foliage which enveloped it."
7837,"Chairs, as in olden time, and Indian palanquins were introduced for the infirm; but else it was nothing singular to see females of rank going on foot to places of fashionable resort."
7838,"The one thing to do was to get out of that hotel alive as quickly as I could, and through some channel other than the front stairs and lobby."
7839,"His birth pleased the aristocracy; his being the candidate recommended by Adrian, a man intimately allied to the popular party, caused a number, who had no great reliance either on the Duke or Mr. Ryland, to range on his side."
7840,"""In speaking of the lonely assassin dragging his burden to the shore, I have already suggested the probability of his availing himself of a boat."
7841,"She lived to find ambition, as unreal a delusion as love."
7842,A Passer in the Storm For days after that hideous experience in the forest swathed mansion I lay nervously exhausted in my hotel room at Lefferts Corners.
7843,"Then rushed upon me a thousand memories of Ligeia and then came back upon my heart, with the turbulent violence of a flood, the whole of that unutterable wo with which I had regarded her thus enshrouded."
7844,"On returning through the lane, I saw at a distance the same assemblage of persons which I had left."
7845,"I did faint after emptying the fourth carboy, which I had to handle after the fumes had begun to penetrate my mask; but when I recovered I saw that the hole was emitting no fresh vapours."
7846,"She only felt in his embrace a dear assurance that while he possessed her, he would not despair."
7847,"In an instant afterward I recollected myself, and my astonishment was profound."
7848,"I lighted the dry branch of a tree and danced with fury around the devoted cottage, my eyes still fixed on the western horizon, the edge of which the moon nearly touched."
7849,"""But how with a gang?"
7850,"As I turned the corner of the gable, the mastiff bounded towards me in stern silence, but with the eye and the whole air of a tiger."
7851,We established ourselves in one of the smallest and least sumptuously furnished apartments.
7852,Wonder if this O ing is a habit of his?
7853,"No form could be discerned on the terraces of the houses; in the higher parts of the town no moving shadow bespoke the presence of any living being: the very trees waved not, and mocked the stability of architecture with like immovability."
7854,The inscription commemorates the surrender of what?
7855,"There were things around us and about of which I can render no distinct account things material and spiritual heaviness in the atmosphere a sense of suffocation anxiety and, above all, that terrible state of existence which the nervous experience when the senses are keenly living and awake, and meanwhile the powers of thought lie dormant."
7856,"I think, on the whole, that it was this variety which chiefly disturbed me."
7857,The corpse could not have been trusted to the shallow waters of the shore.
7858,"If such lovely creatures were miserable, it was less strange that I, an imperfect and solitary being, should be wretched."
7859,"Like a razor also, it seemed massy and heavy, tapering from the edge into a solid and broad structure above."
7860,"It was, as I say, a half formed thought man has many such which are never completed."
7861,"And the lulling melody that had been softer than the wind harp of Aeolus, and more divine than all save the voice of Eleonora, it died little by little away, in murmurs growing lower and lower, until the stream returned, at length, utterly, into the solemnity of its original silence."
7862,"We had all been rather jovial, and West and I did not wish to have our pugnacious companion hunted down."
7863,"And then, as the breach became large enough, they came out into the laboratory in single file; led by a stalking thing with a beautiful head made of wax."
7864,"I have guarded, however, against any such profanation."
7865,"As I advanced in years it was more strongly developed; becoming, for many reasons, a cause of serious disquietude to my friends, and of positive injury to myself."
7866,"I was inclined, however, to the latter opinion."
7867,"The horrors of this dark deed are known only to one, or two, living human beings, and to God. ""Let us sum up now the meagre yet certain fruits of our long analysis."
7868,"No pestilence had ever been so fatal, or so hideous."
7869,"Yet he might not have been so perfectly humane, so thoughtful in his generosity, so full of kindness and tenderness amidst his passion for adventurous exploit, had she not unfolded to him the real loveliness of beneficence and made the doing good the end and aim of his soaring ambition."
7870,"One idea rushed on my mind; never, never may I speak to him again."
7871,"This was all, together with the picture of the hellish image; but what a train of ideas it started in my mind Here were new treasuries of data on the Cthulhu Cult, and evidence that it had strange interests at sea as well as on land."
7872,"You know, the curled up paper tacked to that frightful canvas in the cellar; the thing I thought was a photograph of some scene he meant to use as a background for that monster."
7873,"The question of preeminence is forever put to rest, and hereafter it will be excessively preposterous in the 'Hum Drum,' the 'Rowdy Dow,' or the 'Goosetherumfoodle,' to make any farther spasmodic attempts at competition."
7874,"Of the midnight storm which destroyed this gloomy mansion, the older inhabitants of the region sometimes speak in hushed and uneasy voices; alluding to what they call ""divine wrath"" in a manner that in later years vaguely increased the always strong fascination which I felt for the forest darkened sepulchre."
7875,"""They were not entirely happy."
7876,"In , when a scholarly correspondent from Miskatonic University called upon him one day and departed pale and puzzled, he was fully six and three quarters feet tall."
7877,"A day or two before the Prefect called upon us, however, some important information reached the police, which seemed to overthrow, at least, the chief portion of Le Commerciel's argument."
7878,"The boy had gone to look at the windows of that horrible attic, because of tales of things seen behind them, and had come back screaming maniacally."
7879,"But in proportion to the progress made in a game of chess, is the uncertainty of each ensuing move."
7880,We have had no incidents worth recording.
7881,"Clerval, whose eyes and feelings were always quick in discerning the sensations of others, declined the subject, alleging, in excuse, his total ignorance; and the conversation took a more general turn."
7882,"Among these, the one which attracted the most notice, was the idea that Marie Rogêt still lived that the corpse found in the Seine was that of some other unfortunate."
7883,The result was wearily anticlimactic.
7884,"Why talk of infancy, manhood, and old age?"
7885,"You refuse my just demand; I have but one resource, and I devote myself, either in my life or death, to his destruction."""
7886,One gentleman thought the whole an X ellent joke.
7887,"Meantime, our vegetation had perceptibly altered; and we gained faith, from this predicted circumstance, in the foresight of the wise."
7888,Then suddenly I saw it.
7889,"It was noticeable, indeed, that, in no one of the multiplied instances in which he had of late crossed my path, had he so crossed it except to frustrate those schemes, or to disturb those actions, which, if fully carried out, might have resulted in bitter mischief."
7890,"I devoted myself to him: imperfect creature that I was, I took myself to task, that I might become worthy of him."
7891,"""Your opinions, allow me to say, Baron von Jung, although in the main correct, are, in many nice points, discreditable to yourself and to the university of which you are a member."
7892,"I wish you, therefore, to discard from your thoughts the blundering idea of motive, engendered in the brains of the police by that portion of the evidence which speaks of money delivered at the door of the house."
7893,"But it would not do: I rated my fortitude too high, or my love too low."
7894,"I now believed that the lurking fear was no material thing, but a wolf fanged ghost that rode the midnight lightning."
7895,"Upon considerations similar to these, and still retaining my grasp upon the nose of Mr. W., I accordingly thought proper to model my reply."
7896,"Meanwhile the luminosity increased, waned again, then assumed a pale, outré colour or blend of colours which I could neither place nor describe."
7897,"It is so long before the mind can persuade itself that she whom we saw every day and whose very existence appeared a part of our own can have departed forever that the brightness of a beloved eye can have been extinguished and the sound of a voice so familiar and dear to the ear can be hushed, never more to be heard."
7898,"Here I met Georgio Palli, the vice admiral of the Greek fleet, a former friend and warm partizan of Raymond."
7899,And as I pronounced the last daemoniac sentence I heard afar on the moor the faint baying of some gigantic hound.
7900,"""S'pose one night ye seed somethin' heavy heaved offen Obed's dory beyond the reef, an' then larned nex' day a young feller was missin' from home?"
7901,"The mental features discoursed of as the analytical, are, in themselves, but little susceptible of analysis."
7902,She attended the markets she insisted upon being supplied with food for those who were too poor to purchase it.
7903,"Not that the gift of decyphering written characters a gift among the commonalty of that day considered little less cabalistical than the art of inditing could, in strict justice, have been laid to the charge of either disciple of the sea; but there was, to say the truth, a certain twist in the formation of the letters an indescribable lee lurch about the whole which foreboded, in the opinion of both seamen, a long run of dirty weather; and determined them at once, in the allegorical words of Legs himself, to ""pump ship, clew up all sail, and scud before the wind."""
7904,"Nor will this overwhelming tendency to do wrong for the wrong's sake, admit of analysis, or resolution into ulterior elements."
7905,He was seized and cast into prison the very day that Safie arrived from Constantinople to join him.
7906,"I learned from Werter's imaginations despondency and gloom, but Plutarch taught me high thoughts; he elevated me above the wretched sphere of my own reflections, to admire and love the heroes of past ages."
7907,"A succession of loud and shrill screams, bursting suddenly from the throat of the chained form, seemed to thrust me violently back."
7908,"The stones in the crumbling corridors seemed always hideously damp, and there was an accursed smell everywhere, as of the piled up corpses of dead generations."
7909,"The fellow's eyes had been closed; but in the dragging of his body to the rail they were jarred open, and many seemed to entertain a queer delusion that they gazed steadily and mockingly at Schmidt and Zimmer, who were bent over the corpse."
7910,Justine shook her head mournfully.
7911,Beheld the singular phenomenon of the sun rising while nearly the whole visible surface of the earth continued to be involved in darkness.
7912,"And writing of some kind the bulk of these designs seemed certainly to be; though my memory, despite much familiarity with the papers and collections of my uncle, failed in any way to identify this particular species, or even to hint at its remotest affiliations."
7913,"""As yet I looked upon crime as a distant evil, benevolence and generosity were ever present before me, inciting within me a desire to become an actor in the busy scene where so many admirable qualities were called forth and displayed."
7914,"He can influence the blood thirsty war dogs, while I resist their propensities vainly."
7915,"I now considered it high time to die, since fortune had so determined to persecute me, and accordingly made my way to the nearest river."
7916,"I thought I was prepared for the worst, and I really ought to have been prepared considering what I had seen before."
7917,West told me how he had obtained the specimen.
7918,"The admirable roundness of the wrist was well set off by a bracelet which encircled it, and which also was ornamented and clasped by a magnificent aigrette of jewels telling, in words that could not be mistaken, at once of the wealth and fastidious taste of the wearer."
7919,"And when I looked upon the terraces again I saw that what he said was true, for among the sights before me were many things I had once seen through the mists beyond the horizon and in the phosphorescent depths of ocean."
7920,But in every change goodness and affection can find field for exertion and display.
7921,"Only participants need be apprehended, and the sparing of a great number of mere spectators would considerably lessen the resentment which any of the sympathising country folk might feel."
7922,"But he did not mind his multitude of guests; indeed, he seemed to dread being alone now that his absorbing work was done."
7923,"Like most youths, he indulged in elaborate day dreams of revenge, triumph, and final magnanimous forgiveness."
7924,"Besides, has he not had his full share of the blessings of mortality?"
7925,Had the deceased any articles of jewelry about her person upon leaving home?
7926,It was not known whether there were any living connexions of Madame L. and her daughter.
7927,"She and my father had been playmates from infancy: Diana, even in her childhood had been a favourite with his mother; this partiality encreased with the years of this beautiful and lively girl and thus during his school college vacations they were perpetually together."
7928,"She sat at the table; one small hand shaded her eyes from the candle; the other held a pencil; her looks were fixed on a drawing before her, which Raymond recognized as the design presented to him."
7929,"The real observer would have uttered an instant ejaculation of surprise however prepared by previous knowledge at the singularity of their position; the fictitious observer has not even mentioned the subject, but speaks of seeing the entire bodies of such creatures, when it is demonstrable that he could have seen only the diameter of their heads It might as well be remarked, in conclusion, that the size, and particularly the powers of the man bats for example, their ability to fly in so rare an atmosphere if, indeed, the moon have any, with most of the other fancies in regard to animal and vegetable existence, are at variance, generally, with all analogical reasoning on these themes; and that analogy here will often amount to conclusive demonstration."
7930,"Put on your spectacles, and tell me what it is."
7931,"I thought as I lay there of Denys Barry, and of what would befall that bog when the day came, and found myself almost frantic with an impulse to rush out into the night, take Barry's car, and drive madly to Ballylough out of the menaced lands."
7932,"Wilhelm, Count Berlifitzing, although loftily descended, was, at the epoch of this narrative, an infirm and doting old man, remarkable for nothing but an inordinate and inveterate personal antipathy to the family of his rival, and so passionate a love of horses, and of hunting, that neither bodily infirmity, great age, nor mental incapacity, prevented his daily participation in the dangers of the chase."
7933,Had a thunderbolt fallen at my feet I could not have been more thoroughly astounded astounded only not offended or disgusted in the slightest degree; although an action so bold in any other woman would have been likely to offend or disgust.
7934,"""It is done"" I cried, with all the enthusiasm that I could muster at the moment."
7935,"Trever, now thoroughly terrified and cured forever of his desire to see life via the vice route, edged closer to the blue coated newcomers."
7936,"""When you had gone, and when Jupiter was fast asleep, I betook myself to a more methodical investigation of the affair."
7937,"The woman asked her what she did there, but she looked very strangely and only returned a confused and unintelligible answer."
7938,"One of the Marsh daughters was a repellent, reptilian looking woman who wore an excess of weird jewellery clearly of the same exotic tradition as that to which the strange tiara belonged."
7939,"I'm middle aged and decently sophisticated, and I guess you saw enough of me in France to know I'm not easily knocked out."
7940,"The chamber, measuring about twenty feet square, contained like the other rooms some rubbish which had once been furniture."
7941,"His suicide, however corroborative of suspicion, were there found to be deceit in the affidavits, is, without such deceit, in no respect an unaccountable circumstance, or one which need cause us to deflect from the line of ordinary analysis."
7942,"""Wal, Sir, Obed he larnt that they's things on this arth as most folks never heerd abaout an' wouldn't believe ef they did hear."
7943,"I recall him to have worn a bushy Bob Wig, untyed and without Powder, and much too small for his Head."
7944,"My father's impulses, never under his own controul, perpetually led him into difficulties from which his ingenuity alone could extricate him; and the accumulating pile of debts of honour and of trade, which would have bent to earth any other, was supported by him with a light spirit and tameless hilarity; while his company was so necessary at the tables and assemblies of the rich, that his derelictions were considered venial, and he himself received with intoxicating flattery."
7945,Sardanapalus see Diodorus maintained himself seven in Nineveh; but to no purpose.
7946,The eyes of the public were upon him; and there was really no sacrifice which he would not be willing to make for the development of the mystery.
7947,"Dutee himself thought little of the house, for he grew up to be a privateersman, and served with distinction on the Vigilant under Capt."
7948,"""The first aim of the writer is to show, from the brevity of the interval between Marie's disappearance and the finding of the floating corpse, that this corpse cannot be that of Marie."
7949,"And as to the way I amplified the bare jotting of the old mystic that was quite impossible, and characteristic of a flighty and notional scribbler Mather had indeed told of the thing as being born, but nobody but a cheap sensationalist would think of having it grow up, look into people's windows at night, and be hidden in the attic of a house, in flesh and in spirit, till someone saw it at the window centuries later and couldn't describe what it was that turned his hair grey."
7950,And there were also their bonneted wives and sober children.
7951,"Odd wounds or sores, having something of the aspect of incisions, seemed to afflict the visible cattle; and once or twice during the earlier months certain callers fancied they could discern similar sores about the throats of the grey, unshaven old man and his slatternly, crinkly haired albino daughter."
7952,"The first part of this deposition did not in the least interest me, but when the mark of the fingers was mentioned I remembered the murder of my brother and felt myself extremely agitated; my limbs trembled, and a mist came over my eyes, which obliged me to lean on a chair for support."
7953,As soon as he showed signs of life we wrapped him up in blankets and placed him near the chimney of the kitchen stove.
7954,"It was difficult to say what should be done, and much time was spent in deliberation so confused were the ideas of all."
7955,Her society was my chief solace and delight; and my spirits always rose at the expectation of seeing her.
7956,"Unrest and treason were abroad amongst an evil few who plotted to strike the Western Land its death blow, that they might mount to power over its ruins; even as assassins had mounted in that unhappy, frozen land from whence most of them had come."
7957,"Preliminaries being at length arranged, my acquaintance delivered me the respiration; for which having carefully examined it I gave him afterward a receipt."
7958,"We passed over innumerable vessels of all kinds, a few of which were endeavoring to beat up, but the most of them lying to."
7959,"He touched upon Latour and Markbrünnen; upon Mousseux and Chambertin; upon Richbourg and St. George; upon Haubrion, Leonville, and Medoc; upon Barac and Preignac; upon Grâve, upon Sauterne, upon Lafitte, and upon St. Peray."
7960,Pundit says Atlantic was the ancient adjective.
7961,"Besides human tissue, West employed much of the reptile embryo tissue which he had cultivated with such singular results."
7962,"I have examined maps of the city with the greatest care, yet have never again found the Rue d'Auseil."
7963,A word spoken in an ordinary key stood no more chance of being heard than the voice of a fish from the bottom of Niagara Falls.
7964,"As I emerged from an intervening grove upon the plain before the ruin, I beheld in the misty moonlight a thing I had always vaguely expected."
7965,"The seventh apartment was closely shrouded in black velvet tapestries that hung all over the ceiling and down the walls, falling in heavy folds upon a carpet of the same material and hue."
7966,These we drew back trembling and panting with anxiety.
7967,"Then came one January of fog and rain, when money ran low and drugs were hard to buy."
7968,"Fish Street was as deserted as Main, though it differed in having many brick and stone warehouses still in excellent shape."
7969,"""These wonderful narrations inspired me with strange feelings."
7970,The feelings of kindness and gentleness which I had entertained but a few moments before gave place to hellish rage and gnashing of teeth.
7971,"He was, as one the peculiar delight of the Gods, railed and fenced in by his own divinity, so that nought but love and admiration could approach him."
7972,"I never saw a more interesting creature: his eyes have generally an expression of wildness, and even madness, but there are moments when, if anyone performs an act of kindness towards him or does him any the most trifling service, his whole countenance is lighted up, as it were, with a beam of benevolence and sweetness that I never saw equalled."
7973,"Oh the brave power of the bitter north wind which freezes the tears it has caused to shed But I will not bear this; go: the sun will rise and set as before you came, and I shall sit among the pines or wander on the heath weeping and complaining without wishing for you to listen."
7974,"Let any one who, being at heart a lover of nature, is yet chained by duty to the dust and heat of this great metropolis let any such one attempt, even during the weekdays, to slake his thirst for solitude amid the scenes of natural loveliness which immediately surround us."
7975,"Another thing which puzzled and disturbed me, even in some of the best preserved mansions, was the tightly shuttered condition of many third story and attic windows."
7976,"I then replaced the boards so cleverly, so cunningly, that no human eye not even his could have detected any thing wrong."
7977,"The sum of all my investigation was, that in a kind of semi uncorporeal dream life Slater wandered or floated through resplendent and prodigious valleys, meadows, gardens, cities, and palaces of light; in a region unbounded and unknown to man."
7978,"The vast huddle of sagging gambrel roofs and peaked gables conveyed with offensive clearness the idea of wormy decay, and as we approached along the now descending road I could see that many roofs had wholly caved in."
7979,"I avoided my ancient comrades, and I soon lost them."
7980,"But Adrian is alone, wifeless, childless, unoccupied."
7981,"They were mistaken, however, for, at the first meeting, Monsieur Renelle did actually recognize and make claim to his wife."
7982,"But this catalogue of favourites to be taken with us, could not be made without grief to think of our heavy losses, and a deep sigh for the many things we must leave behind."
7983,"She returned for it, was seized by the gang, carried out into the stream, gagged, brutally treated, and finally taken to the shore at a point not far from that at which she had originally entered the boat with her parents."
7984,"With the quick sensibility peculiar to his temperament, he perceived his power in the brilliant circle to be on the wane."
7985,"Have any of you, my readers, observed the ruins of an anthill immediately after its destruction?"
7986,"A high bred face of masterful though not arrogant expression was adorned by a short iron grey full beard, and an old fashioned pince nez shielded the full, dark eyes and surmounted an aquiline nose which gave a Moorish touch to a physiognomy otherwise dominantly Celtiberian."
7987,It's invisible I knew it would be but there's a powder in this long distance sprayer that might make it shew up for a second.
7988,His good star perpetually shone upon him; a reputation had never before been made so rapidly: it was universal.
7989,"Then, when he was free, he felt in his blouse pocket for the key; and being reassured, skipped off across the orchard to the rise beyond, where the wooded hill climbed again to heights above even the treeless knoll."
7990,"And thus how frequently, in my intense scrutiny of Ligeia's eyes, have I felt approaching the full knowledge of their expression felt it approaching yet not quite be mine and so at length entirely depart And strange, oh strangest mystery of all I found, in the commonest objects of the universe, a circle of analogies to that expression."
7991,I am not Suky Snobbs.
7992,"I must have fallen asleep from fatigue, for it was with a distinct sense of awakening that I heard the voices."
7993,"Through these pipes came at will the odours our moods most craved; sometimes the scent of pale funeral lilies, sometimes the narcotic incense of imagined Eastern shrines of the kingly dead, and sometimes how I shudder to recall it the frightful, soul upheaving stenches of the uncovered grave."
7994,"I have wandered here many days; the caves of ice, which I only do not fear, are a dwelling to me, and the only one which man does not grudge."
7995,"I looked at the closed eyelids, and thought I detected a quivering."
7996,"But I have one want which I have never yet been able to satisfy, and the absence of the object of which I now feel as a most severe evil, I have no friend, Margaret: when I am glowing with the enthusiasm of success, there will be none to participate my joy; if I am assailed by disappointment, no one will endeavour to sustain me in dejection."
7997,My impulse to visit and enter the temple has now become an inexplicable and imperious command which ultimately cannot be denied.
7998,"But a circumstance which has been left out of view by those who contend for such a limit seemed to me, although no positive refutation of their creed, still a point worthy very serious investigation."
7999,"What make him dream bout de goole so much, if taint cause he bit by de goole bug?"
8000,"Dreading to find my faint, and, as it seemed, my last hope frustrated, I so far elevated my head as to obtain a distinct view of my breast."
8001,"When it was decided that the young Earl of Windsor should visit Cumberland, workmen arrived to put the house and grounds in order for his reception."
8002,"My grandfather and his widowed son Walter now comprised the Cleveland household, but the memory of older times hung thickly over it."
8003,"I am blind and cannot judge of your countenance, but there is something in your words which persuades me that you are sincere."
8004,"Still I consoled myself with the reflection that the tide of ill luck would not run against me forever, and so determined to make a bold push for information at the rout of that bewitching little angel, the graceful Mrs. Pirouette."
8005,"The creatures are always going off at a tangent into some fantastic employment, or ridiculous speculation, entirely at variance with the ""fitness of things,"" and having no business whatever to be considered as a business at all."
8006,I grew perfectly sober in an instant.
8007,"The sun's rays were refracted from the pavement and buildings the stoppage of the public fountains the bad quality of the food, and scarcity even of that, produced a state of suffering, which was aggravated by the scourge of disease; while the garrison arrogated every superfluity to themselves, adding by waste and riot to the necessary evils of the time."
8008,"Without the least shadow of a doubt, the lock on my hall door was being tried cautiously, furtively, tentatively with a key."
8009,"""She is innocent, my Elizabeth,"" said I, ""and that shall be proved; fear nothing, but let your spirits be cheered by the assurance of her acquittal."""
8010,"Numbers of men, or things which had been men, dropped to the floor and began lapping at the puddles of spilled liquor, but most remained immovable, watching the unprecedented actions of the barroom drudge and derelict."
8011,"You had better return to London with him; you can there make the enquiries agreed upon, concerning the Earl of Windsor and visit me again to morrow, before you proceed on your journey till then, farewell"" She spoke falteringly, and concluded with a heavy sigh."
8012,"We shall overleap time, space, and dimensions, and without bodily motion peer to the bottom of creation."
8013,"Child of the sun, and nursling of the tropics, it would expire in these climes."
8014,"Upon this we gave nine hearty cheers, and dropped in the sea a bottle, enclosing a slip of parchment with a brief account of the principle of the invention."
8015,"An' jest then our folks organised the Esoteric Order o' Dagon, an' bought Masonic Hall offen Calvary Commandery for it . . ."
8016,"This warmth of affection, added to the depth of her understanding, and the brilliancy of her imagination, made her beyond words dear to Raymond."
8017,In that hour I should die and at once satisfy and extinguish his malice.
8018,"D. Johns Hopkins who had once called at the farm, and who now politely plied him with questions."
8019,'Oppodeldoc' should learn to count.
8020,My father tried to awaken in me the feelings of affection.
8021,Utter bewilderment and the fear of madness racked Gilman as he staggered to the door and saw that there were no muddy prints outside.
8022,"""We may imagine her thinking thus 'I am to meet a certain person for the purpose of elopement, or for certain other purposes known only to myself."
8023,"So as the hour grew dangerously near to dawn, we did as we had done with the others dragged the thing across the meadows to the neck of the woods near the potter's field, and buried it there in the best sort of grave the frozen ground would furnish."
8024,"""Fine writer"" said the Edinburgh."
8025,"The sun had scarcely shone strictly speaking during the day, which nevertheless, had been unpleasantly warm."
8026,"It was this deficiency, I considered, while running over in thought the perfect keeping of the character of the premises with the accredited character of the people, and while speculating upon the possible influence which the one, in the long lapse of centuries, might have exercised upon the other it was this deficiency, perhaps, of collateral issue, and the consequent undeviating transmission, from sire to son, of the patrimony with the name, which had, at length, so identified the two as to merge the original title of the estate in the quaint and equivocal appellation of the ""House of Usher"" an appellation which seemed to include, in the minds of the peasantry who used it, both the family and the family mansion."
8027,"His hands were large and heavily veined, and had a very unusual greyish blue tinge."
8028,"""And can you tell me,"" he demanded, ""what is the meaning of a nose?"" ""A nose, my father;"" I replied, greatly softened, ""has been variously defined by about a thousand different authors."""
8029,"No one dared do anything, and no one knew till morning whence the call came."
8030,"This noble war in the sky elevated my spirits; I clasped my hands, and exclaimed aloud, ""William, dear angel this is thy funeral, this thy dirge"" As I said these words, I perceived in the gloom a figure which stole from behind a clump of trees near me; I stood fixed, gazing intently: I could not be mistaken."
8031,"To be sure, the question of identity was readily determined, or should have been; but there were other points to be ascertained."
8032,"They were Donovan, Guerrera, and Ångstrom."
8033,Nobody never see 'em agin.
8034,"I agreed to leave the finishing and guardianship of the tomb to the head of the religious establishment at Athens, and by the end of October prepared for my return to England."
8035,"I demand, and most solemnly I demand if in any way I am the cause of your unhappiness."
8036,He raised it to his lips with a leer.
8037,"He spoke of the state of England; the necessary measures to be taken to ensure its security, and confirm its prosperity."
8038,"He is at a livery stable in the Rue Dubourg, just by."
8039,Helas am I not ready speak de too moshe?
8040,"The devastation was not confined to the towns, but spread throughout the country; the hunter died in the woods, the peasant in the corn fields, and the fisher on his native waters."
8041,"You raise me from the dust by this kindness; and I trust that, by your aid, I shall not be driven from the society and sympathy of your fellow creatures.'"
8042,"The way was rocky, and made perilous by chasms, cliffs, and falling stones."
8043,"Ahead raced the small, kaleidoscopic polyhedron, and all through the churning void there was a heightening and acceleration of the vague tonal pattern which seemed to foreshadow some unutterable and unendurable climax."
8044,"""Hush"" said the captain, pointing to the wife and sisters of the deceased."
8045,No such Paradises are to be found in reality as have glowed upon the canvass of Claude.
8046,"The dusk fell, and lights faintly gleamed in some of the distant windows, but we did not move."
8047,"At another time I felt the huge animate things brushing past me and occasionally walking or drifting through my supposedly solid body, and thought I saw Tillinghast look at them as though his better trained senses could catch them visually."
8048,"Seeking in Paris the objects I then sought, I felt that the society of such a man would be to me a treasure beyond price; and this feeling I frankly confided to him."
8049,"The old man was getting hysterical, and I began to shiver with a nameless alarm."
8050,"I had hoped it would last into the night to help our quest, but a furtive sunbeam from a knothole behind me removed the likelihood of such a thing."
8051,Here was a long pause.
8052,In this emigration I exceedingly lamented the loss of the fire which I had obtained through accident and knew not how to reproduce it.
8053,"Then he knew he must go into the past and merge himself with old things, and day after day he thought of the hills to the north where haunted Arkham and the rushing Miskatonic and the lonely rustic homestead of his people lay."
8054,The fair face of Nature was deformed as with the ravages of some loathsome disease.
8055,As yet western Europe was uninfected; would it always be so?
8056,"He shewed himself collected, gallant and imperial; his commands were prompt, his intuition of the events of the day to me miraculous."
8057,"Mr. Kirwin is a magistrate, and you are to give an account of the death of a gentleman who was found murdered here last night."""
8058,"""Urged by this impulse, I seized on the boy as he passed and drew him towards me."
8059,It will contain no reproaches.
8060,"After the scene sketched in the preceding pages, Perdita had contemplated an entire change in the manners and conduct of Raymond."
8061,"It had received three coats of varnish, and I found the cambric muslin to answer all the purposes of silk itself, quite as strong and a good deal less expensive."
8062,"It might have been half an hour, perhaps even an hour, for I could take but imperfect note of time before I again cast my eyes upward."
8063,"Then the two rowed to a galley in the harbour, and giving orders to the oarsmen, commenced to sail out into the billowy Cerenerian Sea that leads to the sky."
8064,At the last moment I decided I had better slacken my trot and make the crossing as before in the shambling gait of an average Innsmouth native.
8065,"The difficulty of breathing, however, was diminished in a very slight degree, and I found that it would soon be positively necessary to make use of my condenser."
8066,"The lodgers and police on that night soothed me, and the doctor administered something to quiet me, nor did anyone see what a nightmare event had taken place."
8067,"She begged me, but with a sigh, to reconsider my proposal, and termed my love an infatuation a will o' the wisp a fancy or fantasy of the moment a baseless and unstable creation rather of the imagination than of the heart."
8068,"A pair of stumpy bow legs supported his squat, unwieldy figure, while his unusually short and thick arms, with no ordinary fists at their extremities, swung off dangling from his sides like the fins of a sea turtle."
8069,I gazed; while my brain reeled with a multitude of incoherent thoughts.
8070,"That of Jonas Ramus, which is perhaps the most circumstantial of any, cannot impart the faintest conception either of the magnificence, or of the horror of the scene or of the wild bewildering sense of the novel which confounds the beholder."
8071,"Over the deep grave of my secret I must heap an impenetrable heap of false smiles and words: cunning frauds, treacherous laughter and a mixture of all light deceits would form a mist to blind others and be as the poisonous simoon to me."
8072,"In this project I succeeded perfectly well at the first effort, and by the time I was fairly eighteen, found myself doing an extensive and profitable business in the Tailor's Walking Advertisement line."
8073,"Right at the front door, in a high backed leather bottomed armed chair, with crooked legs and puppy feet like the tables, is seated the old man of the house himself."
8074,"Klenze seemed paralysed and inefficient, as one might expect of a soft, womanish Rhinelander."
8075,My choice was easily made.
8076,"His gloom, however which I considered quite natural under the circumstances, seemed entirely unabated."
8077,The saintly soul of Elizabeth shone like a shrine dedicated lamp in our peaceful home.
8078,You will rejoice to hear that no disaster has accompanied the commencement of an enterprise which you have regarded with such evil forebodings.
8079,It was partly because of that laugh that Reid dropped him.
8080,I need not conjure you to look upon me as one of whom all links that once existed between us are broken.
8081,I but indistinctly recall the fact itself what wonder that I have utterly forgotten the circumstances which originated or attended it?
8082,"Opposite him, and with her back to the door, was a lady of no whit the less extraordinary character."
8083,Could distinguish the words 'sacré' and 'diable.'
8084,"""Where there is much show,"" he says, ""there is seldom any thing very solid behind"" an observation which so profoundly impresses his landlady's fancy, that she makes a pencil memorandum of it forthwith, in her great family Bible, on the broad margin of the Proverbs of Solomon."
8085,Is sure that it was not the voice of an Englishman.
8086,"The apprehension, that Raymond had departed for ever, that his name, blended eternally with the past, must be erased from every anticipation of the future, had come slowly upon me."
8087,"Upon finishing the perusal of this very extraordinary document, Professor Rub a dub, it is said, dropped his pipe upon the ground in the extremity of his surprise, and Mynheer Superbus Von Underduk having taken off his spectacles, wiped them, and deposited them in his pocket, so far forgot both himself and his dignity, as to turn round three times upon his heel in the quintessence of astonishment and admiration."
8088,"I will not live the mark of suspicion, the object of jealousy."
8089,"After some few days of pain, and many of dreamy delirium replete with ecstasy, the manifestations of which you mistook for pain, while I longed but was impotent to undeceive you after some days there came upon me, as you have said, a breathless and motionless torpor; and this was termed Death by those who stood around me. Words are vague things."
8090,"Our Auckland correspondent gives the Emma and her crew an excellent reputation, and Johansen is described as a sober and worthy man."
8091,Nor was I greatly astonished at the nature of his decision.
8092,"I had largely given over my inquiries into what Professor Angell called the ""Cthulhu Cult"", and was visiting a learned friend in Paterson, New Jersey; the curator of a local museum and a mineralogist of note."
8093,"Most philosophers, upon many points of philosophy, are still very unphilosophical."
8094,"When he took down the shutter the wind and rain howled deafeningly in, so that I could not hear what he said; but I waited while he leaned out and tried to fathom Nature's pandemonium."
8095,"Some of Bullethead's remarks were really so fiery that I have always, since that time, been forced to look upon John Smith, who is still alive, in the light of a salamander."
8096,"After the departure of her father, thought became impressed on her young brow."
8097,"Now, how strangely unusual must that voice have really been, about which such testimony as this could have been elicited in whose tones, even, denizens of the five great divisions of Europe could recognise nothing familiar You will say that it might have been the voice of an Asiatic of an African."
8098,I therefore struggled alone in my endeavors to call back the spirit ill hovering.
8099,"Thence it had been their custom, time out of mind, to migrate annually to some portion of the earth."
8100,"Assuming this hypothesis, it would be grossly absurd to compare with the Chess Player, any similar thing of either modern or ancient days."
8101,"""Of Madame L'Espanaye no traces were here seen; but an unusual quantity of soot being observed in the fire place, a search was made in the chimney, and horrible to relate the corpse of the daughter, head downward, was dragged therefrom; it having been thus forced up the narrow aperture for a considerable distance."
8102,"It was after this that he cultivated deliberate illusion, and dabbled in the notions of the bizarre and the eccentric as an antidote for the commonplace."
8103,"Despite their distance below me I at once knew they were the servants brought from the north, for I recognised the ugly and unwieldy form of the cook, whose very absurdness had now become unutterably tragic."
8104,"Reproach is indeed an idle word: for what should I reproach you? ""Allow me in some degree to explain my feeling; without that, we shall both grope in the dark, mistaking one another; erring from the path which may conduct, one of us at least, to a more eligible mode of life than that led by either during the last few weeks."
8105,Where was the plague?
8106,"Yet in a second afterward, so frail may that web have been we remember not that we have dreamed."
8107,Isn't that your tobacco lying there?
8108,"They did not now guess at, and totter on the pathway, divining the mode to please, hoping, yet fearing the continuance of bliss."
8109,"Now, in spite of all that guidance, Alfred Trever was at Sheehan's and about to take his first drink."
8110,"""Dupin,"" said I, gravely, ""this is beyond my comprehension."
8111,"Do you remember the story they tell of Abernethy?"""
8112,But it is important that we find no palpable traces of suggestion.
8113,"Family and neighbours had now fled in a panic, and when the more courageous of them returned, Slater was gone, leaving behind an unrecognisable pulp like thing that had been a living man but an hour before."
8114,My father loved Beaufort with the truest friendship and was deeply grieved by his retreat in these unfortunate circumstances.
8115,"And because our reason violently deters us from the brink, therefore do we the most impetuously approach it."
8116,"This idea I endeavored to confute, kicking and plunging with all my might, and making the most furious contortions for the operations of the surgeon had, in a measure, restored me to the possession of my faculties."
8117,"But if the impressions of what I have termed the first stage, are not, at will, recalled, yet, after long interval, do they not come unbidden, while we marvel whence they come?"
8118,"That he was right, I soon learned from the unutterable fear which engulfed me whenever consciousness lapsed."
8119,"My spirit will sleep in peace, or if it thinks, it will not surely think thus."
8120,"The tears that suffused my sister's eyes when I mentioned our friend, and her heightened colour seemed to vouch for the truth of the reports that had reached me."
8121,"""Between Lofoden and Moskoe,"" he says, ""the depth of the water is between thirty six and forty fathoms; but on the other side, toward Ver Vurrgh this depth decreases so as not to afford a convenient passage for a vessel, without the risk of splitting on the rocks, which happens even in the calmest weather."
8122,"Punctually every sixty minutes was I aroused by my trusty chronometer, when, having emptied the pitcher into the bung hole of the keg, and performed the duties of the condenser, I retired again to bed."
8123,"""These vaults,"" he said, ""are extensive."""
8124,"I have before observed that it is by prominences above the plane of the ordinary, that reason feels her way, if at all, in her search for the true, and that the proper question in cases such as this, is not so much 'what has occurred?' as 'what has occurred that has never occurred before?'"
8125,Let me hear the sweet tones of your beloved voice in peace and calm.
8126,"People around the country and in the nearby towns muttered a great deal among themselves, but said very little to the outer world."
8127,"With only a slight churning to mark its rise to the surface, the thing slid into view above the dark waters."
8128,Similar observations have been made since the Automaton has been purchased by Maelzel.
8129,"That I am still alive and sane, is a marvel I cannot fathom."
8130,"""Thou wilt ever be the same."
8131,"I especially noted his new habit of muttering, for it was not like him to talk to himself."
8132,"Death, cruel and relentless, had entered these beloved walls."
8133,"There were two particulars, nevertheless, which I thought then, and still think, might fairly be stated as characteristic of the intonation as well adapted to convey some idea of its unearthly peculiarity."
8134,"His last injunction to me was that I should be happy; perhaps he did not mean the shadowy happiness that I promised myself, yet it was that alone which I could taste."
8135,That peddler told the store loungers at Dunwich Village that he thought he heard a horse stamping on that floor above.
8136,"Anxious to leave Washington Street, I broke into a quiet dog trot, trusting to luck not to encounter any observing eye."
8137,Suddenly the system of warfare was changed.
8138,"It is related of them that they were acute in many respects, but were oddly afflicted with monomania for building what, in the ancient Amriccan, was denominated ""churches"" a kind of pagoda instituted for the worship of two idols that went by the names of Wealth and Fashion."
8139,The throat was greatly chafed.
8140,"""What do you say,"" I suggested modestly, ""to my kicking him in the first instance, caning him afterwards, and winding up by tweaking his nose?"""
8141,"Had I been remanded to my dungeon, to await the next sacrifice, which would not take place for many months?"
8142,"Here, let's have the chandelier going."
8143,"This act, however, did not prevent young Ellison from entering into possession, on his twenty first birthday, as the heir of his ancestor Seabright, of a fortune of four hundred and fifty millions of dollars."
8144,How refuse the offers of this generous friend?
8145,"I had resolved in my own mind that to create another like the fiend I had first made would be an act of the basest and most atrocious selfishness, and I banished from my mind every thought that could lead to a different conclusion."
8146,"Should he come, it will be necessary to detain him."
8147,This object is situated in the steeple of the House of the Town Council.
8148,"We met other families on the Long Walk, enjoying like ourselves the return of the genial season."
8149,"""Why, a very great deal a very liberal reward I don't like to say how much, precisely; but one thing I will say, that I wouldn't mind giving my individual check for fifty thousand francs to any one who could obtain me that letter."
8150,"I cannot better explain my meaning than by the hypothesis that the mesmeric exaltation enables me to perceive a train of ratiocination which, in my abnormal existence, convinces, but which, in full accordance with the mesmeric phenomena, does not extend, except through its effect, into my normal condition."
8151,"I receded to solitude; I had recourse to my books, and my desire again to enjoy the society of Adrian became a burning thirst."
8152,"The principal door was not exactly in the main division, being a little to the east while the two windows were to the west."
8153,"It mattered not whether the truth was even demonstrably a truth, for the bullet headed savans of the time regarded only the road by which he had attained it."
8154,"Handsome knights they were, astride roan horses and clad in shining armour with tabards of cloth of gold curiously emblazoned."
8155,There was Fricassée from the Rocher de Cancale.
8156,It had for some time been noticed that dogs had begun to hate and fear the whole Whateley place as violently as they hated and feared young Wilbur personally.
8157,"And thus, as a closer and still closer intimacy admitted me more unreservedly into the recesses of his spirit, the more bitterly did I perceive the futility of all attempt at cheering a mind from which darkness, as if an inherent positive quality, poured forth upon all objects of the moral and physical universe, in one unceasing radiation of gloom."
8158,Perhaps the first diddler was Adam.
8159,"For my own part, I regarded them as gods, and drank in with avidity the rich wit and wisdom which continuously flowed from their august mouths during the process of what is styled ""lather."""
8160,She bestowed it upon Bossuet.
8161,"This spirit gave a tone of irresistible persuasion to his intercourse with others, so that he seemed like an inspired musician, who struck, with unerring skill, the ""lyre of mind,"" and produced thence divine harmony."
8162,"The present voodoo orgy was, indeed, on the merest fringe of this abhorred area, but that location was bad enough; hence perhaps the very place of the worship had terrified the squatters more than the shocking sounds and incidents."
8163,Pareamo aver qui tutto il ben raccolto Che fra mortali in piu parte si rimembra.
8164,"The enthusiasm that inspired her with this strange joy, blinded her to the horrors about her; but they were intolerably agonizing to me."
8165,"If this rule were always observed; if no man allowed any pursuit whatsoever to interfere with the tranquillity of his domestic affections, Greece had not been enslaved, Caesar would have spared his country, America would have been discovered more gradually, and the empires of Mexico and Peru had not been destroyed."
8166,"I have found that a most pleasant and lucrative business, and, really, no trouble at all."
8167,What modern in his senses would ever think of disputing this truism?
8168,"All were pointing to a certain passage, and every face seemed so distorted with epileptic and reverberant laughter that I almost thought I heard the fiendish echoes."
8169,"It was not adviseable to wait this sad consummation in our native country; but travelling would give us our object for each day, that would distract our thoughts from the swift approaching end of things."
8170,"So you are about to love her, but do not already?"""
8171,"Thus pain, which in the inorganic life is impossible, is possible in the organic."
8172,Why I did this was not at first apparent even to my own perception.
8173,"I feel that I know what ought to be done, and as my presence is necessary for the accomplishment of my plans, I will take especial care to preserve my life."
8174,"I was celebrating my coming of age by a tour of New England sightseeing, antiquarian, and genealogical and had planned to go directly from ancient Newburyport to Arkham, whence my mother's family was derived."
8175,The whole face of the southern declivity was covered with wild shrubbery alone an occasional silver willow or white poplar excepted.
8176,The sun was blazing down from a sky which seemed to me almost black in its cloudless cruelty; as though reflecting the inky marsh beneath my feet.
8177,"Chapter Nothing is more painful to the human mind than, after the feelings have been worked up by a quick succession of events, the dead calmness of inaction and certainty which follows and deprives the soul both of hope and fear."
8178,"No printing press, but the hand of some half crazed monk, had traced these ominous Latin phrases in uncials of awesome antiquity."
8179,And then swiftly he dispatched his aides de camp to command the horse to fall on the routed enemy.
8180,"Uplifting an axe, and forgetting, in my wrath, the childish dread which had hitherto stayed my hand, I aimed a blow at the animal which, of course, would have proved instantly fatal had it descended as I wished."
8181,"Listen to me, Frankenstein."
8182,"She could not tell the police, for they never believed such things."
8183,But I must try to tell what I thought I saw that night under the mocking yellow moon saw surging and hopping down the Rowley road in plain sight in front of me as I crouched among the wild brambles of that desolate railway cut.
8184,"This, then, was the very creature of which I was in search."
8185,At length Perdita dismissed her.
8186,"Wait till I tell yer Uncle Chris when he gits hum Ye'd orta know these here woods ain't no fitten place to be traipsin' this hour They's things abroad what dun't do nobody no good, as my gran'sir' knowed afur me."
8187,"As soon as Dombrowski left it the pall of its final desolation began to descend, for people shunned it both on account of its old reputation and because of the new foetid odour."
8188,"I was for some time ignorant of this and thought that my excessive weakness was the consequence of the fever; sic But my strength became less and less; as winter came on I had a cough; and my sunken cheek, before pale, burned with a hectic fever."
8189,"He will, I believe, some time be heard from as one of the great decadents; for he has crystallised in clay and will one day mirror in marble those nightmares and phantasies which Arthur Machen evokes in prose, and Clark Ashton Smith makes visible in verse and in painting."
8190,"I judge from this circumstance, as well as from an air of exhaustion in the countenance of my friend, that he had not retired to bed during the whole of the preceding night."
8191,"So little is known of what went on beneath the surface so little, yet such a ghastly festering as it bubbles up putrescently in occasional ghoulish glimpses."
8192,"Now, I looked on the evening star, as softly and calmly it hung pendulous in the orange hues of sunset."
8193,"As I thought of him new terrors convulsed me, and I fell to the floor; not fainting, but physically helpless."
8194,"He watched and listened with his mind more than with his eyes and ears, and strove every moment to drown something in his ceaseless poring over gay, insipid novels."
8195,"In about twenty minutes our first buoy dipped, and at the touch of the second soon afterwards, we remained stationary as to elevation."
8196,"""Oh, my Gawd, my Gawd,"" the voice choked out."
8197,When rocked by the waves of the lake my spirits rose in triumph as a horseman feels with pride the motions of his high fed steed.
8198,I had begun life with benevolent intentions and thirsted for the moment when I should put them in practice and make myself useful to my fellow beings.
8199,"""Cowards"" exclaimed their general, exasperated, ""give me an hatchet I alone will enter I will plant your standard; and when you see it wave from yon highest minaret, you may gain courage, and rally round it"" One of the officers now came forward: ""General,"" he said, ""we neither fear the courage, nor arms, the open attack, nor secret ambush of the Moslems."
8200,"There was a large estate with a mansion attached to it, belonging to this family, at Ulswater."
8201,"She would wander out at night to get food, and returned home, pleased that she had met no one, that she was in no danger from the plague."
8202,"The curse of Allah is on Stamboul, share ye her fate."""
8203,"The prospect did not move me to fear; yet when I thought of my beloved Elizabeth, of her tears and endless sorrow, when she should find her lover so barbarously snatched from her, tears, the first I had shed for many months, streamed from my eyes, and I resolved not to fall before my enemy without a bitter struggle."
8204,"I was sorry I had put out the light, yet was too tired to rise and turn it on again."
8205,"Instead there was a clatter of people coming up with lanterns, for the spell of phantasmal silence had broken, and I once more heard sounds and saw figures as normally tri dimensional."
8206,"Someone telephoned the news to the Aylesbury Transcript; but the editor, accustomed to wild tales from Dunwich, did no more than concoct a humorous paragraph about it; an item soon afterward reproduced by the Associated Press."
8207,"Whatever may be said against the abuses of the artificial landscape gardening, a mixture of pure art in a garden scene adds to it a great beauty."
8208,"His age was perhaps thirty five, but the odd, deep creases in the sides of his neck made him seem older when one did not study his dull, expressionless face."
8209,Let us now revert to the interior of the room.
8210,As for the Innsmouth people the youth hardly knew what to make of them.
8211,"At one time I fancied I had gone mad this was when, on wondering how our way was lighted in the absence of lamp or candle, I realised that the ancient ring on my finger was glowing with eerie radiance, diffusing a pallid lustre through the damp, heavy air around."
8212,"I cannot tell you how it adds to my grief to know that I am the cause of uneasiness to you; but this will pass away, and I hope that soon we shall be as we were a few months ago."
8213,Let him confide his misery to another heart and half the weight of it will be lightened.
8214,"Now, after a moment of silence during which the walker may have been inspecting my bicycle in the hall, I heard a fumbling at the latch and saw the panelled portal swing open again."
8215,"His genius was transcendant, and when it rose as a bright star in the east all eyes were turned towards it in admiration."
8216,"In that palace there were also many galleries, and many amphitheatres where lions and men and elephants battled at the pleasure of the kings."
8217,"One of very remarkable character, and of which the circumstances may be fresh in the memory of some of my readers, occurred, not very long ago, in the neighboring city of Baltimore, where it occasioned a painful, intense, and widely extended excitement."
8218,"For myself, I will not voluntarily seek death, that is, I will not, while I can command myself; and I can here."
8219,"At length we saw the numerous steeples of London, St. Paul's towering above all, and the Tower famed in English history."
8220,"I told the servants not to disturb the family, and went into the library to attend their usual hour of rising."
8221,"He was hideously sure that in unrecalled dreams he had talked with both Brown Jenkin and the old woman, and that they had been urging him to go somewhere with them and to meet a third being of greater potency."
8222,"Windham and Allbreath were his favorite writers, his favorite artist, Phiz."
8223,"But I concealed my feelings by an appearance of hilarity that brought smiles and joy to the countenance of my father, but hardly deceived the ever watchful and nicer eye of Elizabeth."
8224,No word of comment followed; each reader made his own fearful one.
8225,Ol' Cap'n Obed done it him that faound aout more'n was good fer him in the Saouth Sea islands.
8226,"Round and round we swept not with any uniform movement but in dizzying swings and jerks, that sent us sometimes only a few hundred yards sometimes nearly the complete circuit of the whirl."
8227,"There was neither jealousy, inquietude, or mistrust in his sentiment; it was devotion and faith."
8228,"We landed, and proceeded to Paris."
8229,"""My dear madam,"" said he, evidently struck with my majestic appearance, for I had on the crimson satin, with the green agraffas, and orange colored auriclas."
8230,"What fools we two are Mr. Rumgudgeon, the matter stands thus: the earth, you know, is twenty four thousand miles in circumference."
8231,"When Tillinghast said these things I remonstrated, for I knew him well enough to be frightened rather than amused; but he was a fanatic, and drove me from the house."
8232,Considerable talk was started when Silas Bishop of the undecayed Bishops mentioned having seen the boy running sturdily up that hill ahead of his mother about an hour before the blaze was remarked.
8233,"Chapter ""Cursed, cursed creator Why did I live?"
8234,I am a methodical man.
8235,"Once inside one of the decrepit brick structures I would have to reckon with pursuit; but I hoped to descend and dodge in and out of yawning doorways along the shadowed courtyard, eventually getting to Washington Street and slipping out of town toward the south."
8236,"Most of the students went home, or to various duties, as the evening advanced; but West persuaded me to aid him in ""making a night of it""."
8237,"My trifling occupations take up my time and amuse me, and I am rewarded for any exertions by seeing none but happy, kind faces around me."
8238,"Disease a fatal disease, fell like the simoon upon her frame; and, even while I gazed upon her, the spirit of change swept over her, pervading her mind, her habits, and her character, and, in a manner the most subtle and terrible, disturbing even the identity of her person Alas the destroyer came and went and the victim where is she?"
8239,Idris was well content with this resolve of mine.
8240,"I am by no means naturally nervous, and the very few glasses of Lafitte which I had sipped served to embolden me no little, so that I felt nothing of trepidation, but merely uplifted my eyes with a leisurely movement, and looked carefully around the room for the intruder."
8241,"The notes, you see, amount to a very considerable sum."
8242,"""Strange you shouldn't know me, though, isn't it?"
8243,"The convex surface of any segment of a sphere is, to the entire surface of the sphere itself, as the versed sine of the segment to the diameter of the sphere."
8244,"S'pose they musta had, arter all, them old magic signs as the sea things says was the only things they was afeard of."
8245,"In other angles were two other similar boxes, far less reverenced, indeed, but still greatly matters of awe."
8246,"I would wish them to seek out for me, in the details I am about to give, some little oasis of fatality amid a wilderness of error."
8247,"I rap him up in de paper and stuff piece ob it in he mouff dat was de way."" ""And you think, then, that your master was really bitten by the beetle, and that the bite made him sick?"" ""I do n't tink noffin about it I nose it."
8248,I dare say you would like to take a peep at the divinity of the temple.
8249,"Artillery and arms were collected; the remnants of such regiments, as could be brought through many losses into any show of muster, were put under arms, with that appearance of military discipline which might encourage our own party, and seem most formidable to the disorganized multitude of our enemies."
8250,"""So well satisfied, however, was Mr. Mason of the ultimate success of his invention, that he determined to construct immediately, if possible, a balloon of sufficient capacity to test the question by a voyage of some extent the original design being to cross the British Channel, as before, in the Nassau balloon."
8251,"With your left hand you caressed him and kept him off, while your right, holding the parchment, was permitted to fall listlessly between your knees, and in close proximity to the fire."
8252,"From whatever direction the daemon might come, our potential escape was provided."
8253,"She was not content that, even for a time, he should practice concealment with her."
8254,"We walked together in the gardens and in the evening when I would have retired he asked me to stay and read to him; and first said, ""When I was last here your mother read Dante to me; you shall go on where she left off."""
8255,"Soon after Idris, who was at the harp, turned to that passionate and sorrowful air in Figaro, ""Porgi, amor, qualche risforo,"" in which the deserted Countess laments the change of the faithless Almaviva."
8256,"It would afford me a chance of bringing to a kind of test the truth of a surmise, which, more than anything else, had influenced me in attempting this ascension."
8257,"The pictures drawn in these books were so vivid, that we seemed to have experienced the results depicted by them."
8258,"""I have powers; my countrymen think well of them."
8259,"""Safie resolved to remain with her father until the moment of his departure, before which time the Turk renewed his promise that she should be united to his deliverer; and Felix remained with them in expectation of that event; and in the meantime he enjoyed the society of the Arabian, who exhibited towards him the simplest and tenderest affection."
8260,Such was his choice: he expected to die.
8261,"Then I spoke with the bearded man, and told him of my new yearnings to depart for remote Cathuria, which no man hath seen, but which all believe to lie beyond the basalt pillars of the West."
8262,I had one female servant who spent the greater part of the day at a village two miles off.
8263,But to convince you that selfish feeling does not entirely engross me I shall remain in this town untill you have made by letter every arrangement that you judge necessary.
8264,"As time wore along, his absorption in the irregular wall and ceiling of his room increased; for he began to read into the odd angles a mathematical significance which seemed to offer vague clues regarding their purpose."
8265,"I had read many scrolls out of Syria and Ægyptus, and the cryptic towns of Etruria, and had talked at length with the bloodthirsty priest of Diana Aricina in his temple in the woods bordering Lacus Nemorensis."
8266,"Let us know the full history of 'the officer,' with his present circumstances, and his whereabouts at the precise period of the murder."
8267,"He might dissect, anatomize, and give names; but, not to speak of a final cause, causes in their secondary and tertiary grades were utterly unknown to him."
8268,I was in the wrong to commence a system of concealment; but I did it for the sake of sparing you pain; and each day has rendered it more difficult for me to alter my plan.
8269,"My father, Thomas Bob, Esq., stood for many years at the summit of his profession, which was that of a merchant barber, in the city of Smug."
8270,"It was altogether unnecessary to devote seven or eight pages for the purpose of proving what no one in his senses would deny viz: that the wonderful mechanical genius of Baron Kempelen could invent the necessary means for shutting a door or slipping aside a pannel, with a human agent too at his service in actual contact with the pannel or the door, and the whole operations carried on, as the author of the Essay himself shows, and as we shall attempt to show more fully hereafter, entirely out of reach of the observation of the spectators."
8271,"The moon, now near the zenith, shone weirdly and vividly above the towering steeps that hemmed in the chasm, and revealed the fact that a far flung body of water flowed at the bottom, winding out of sight in both directions, and almost lapping my feet as I stood on the slope."
8272,"Baleful primal trees of unholy size, age, and grotesqueness leered above me like the pillars of some hellish Druidic temple; muffling the thunder, hushing the clawing wind, and admitting but little rain."
8273,As he walked among other men he seemed encompassed with a heavenly halo that divided him from and lifted him above them.
8274,"As, however, the day broke more distinctly in our approach to the outskirts of the city, my tormentor, arising and adjusting his shirt collar, thanked me in a very friendly manner for my civility."
8275,"My aunt conceived a great attachment for her, by which she was induced to give her an education superior to that which she had at first intended."
8276,"I folded my arms upon my bosom, and roamed easily to and fro."
8277,Into the north window of my chamber glows the Pole Star with uncanny light.
8278,"There were many dear friends whom we must not leave behind, humble though they were."
8279,Your years surpass in some measure my own.
8280,Those were the last moments of my life during which I enjoyed the feeling of happiness.
8281,"An inappropriate hour, a jarring lighting effect, or a clumsy manipulation of the damp sod, would almost totally destroy for us that ecstatic titillation which followed the exhumation of some ominous, grinning secret of the earth."
8282,Nothing can be put back now.
8283,I might never have known Dr. Muñoz had it not been for the heart attack that suddenly seized me one forenoon as I sat writing in my room.
8284,"She embraced Elizabeth and said in a voice of half suppressed emotion, ""Farewell, sweet lady, dearest Elizabeth, my beloved and only friend; may heaven, in its bounty, bless and preserve you; may this be the last misfortune that you will ever suffer Live, and be happy, and make others so."""
8285,"You will find a happy, cheerful home and friends who love you dearly."
8286,It would perhaps have been easier to keep my thoughts from disturbing topics had the room not been so gruesomely musty.
8287,"I will content myself with saying, in addition, that my temperament is sanguine, rash, ardent, enthusiastic and that all my life I have been a devoted admirer of the women."
8288,"I did not pretend to enter into the merits of the case, yet I inclined towards the opinions of the hero, whose extinction I wept, without precisely understanding it."
8289,When engaged in meditation about the game he has no time to think of setting in motion the mechanism of the Automaton by which are moved the head and the eyes.
8290,"Dr. Muñoz, most certainly, was a man of birth, cultivation, and discrimination."
8291,"""This wound will probably shorten my life, having shattered a frame, weak of itself."
8292,"Once we fancied that a large, opaque body darkened the library window when the moon was shining against it, and another time we thought we heard a whirring or flapping sound not far off."
8293,It was then ejected by a small valve at the bottom of the car the dense air readily sinking into the thinner atmosphere below.
8294,There must remain with me a certain control over the extent and duration of my repose.
8295,"This collection frightens away most of the small boys who love to taunt the Terrible Old Man about his long white hair and beard, or to break the small paned windows of his dwelling with wicked missiles; but there are other things which frighten the older and more curious folk who sometimes steal up to the house to peer in through the dusty panes."
8296,"Such was the power of man over the elements; a power long sought, and lately won; yet foretold in by gone time by the prince of poets, whose verses I quoted much to the astonishment of my pilot, when I told him how many hundred years ago they had been written: Oh human wit, thou can'st invent much ill, Thou searchest strange arts: who would think by skill, An heavy man like a light bird should stray, And through the empty heavens find a way?"
8297,"These figures were seldom completely human, but often approached humanity in varying degree."
8298,"Large stocks of firs and pine trees, after being absorbed by the current, rise again broken and torn to such a degree as if bristles grew upon them."
8299,"Yet the houses remained, despite the ravages of the years and the storms and worms, for they had been made to serve many a generation."
8300,"My wanderings amid such scenes have been many, and far searching, and often solitary; and the interest with which I have strayed through many a dim, deep valley, or gazed into the reflected Heaven of many a bright lake, has been an interest greatly deepened by the thought that I have strayed and gazed alone."
8301,My first real knowledge of myself was as an unprotected orphan among the valleys and fells of Cumberland.
8302,"I had been excited to the utmost by the proceedings of the day, and now more than ever by the passionate language of Raymond."
8303,But the most baffling thing was the inability of anyone to place the recorded parents of the young woman Enoch and Lydia Meserve Marsh among the known families of New Hampshire.
8304,Raymond began the conversation somewhat abruptly.
8305,"With this work Romero and I were not connected, wherefore our first knowledge of extraordinary conditions came from others."
8306,I could scarcely get rid of it for an instant.
8307,"The old man was panting, and perspiring profusely."
8308,"""You do not comprehend?"" he said."
8309,"After a number of calculations West decided that it represented some secret chamber beneath the tomb of the Averills, where the last interment had been made in ."
8310,"I struck several matches in succession, and desperately regretted the improvidence which had caused us long ago to use up the few candles we carried."
8311,"A very ""fine old English gentleman,"" was my grand uncle Rumgudgeon, but unlike him of the song, he had his weak points."
8312,"You say that ""but for the necessity of the rudimental life"" there would have been no stars."
8313,In the meantime I took every precaution to defend my person in case the fiend should openly attack me.
8314,"In the present posture of affairs, M. Beauvais appears to have the whole matter locked up in his head."
8315,This condition was nearly unaltered for a quarter of an hour.
8316,"Of graves and tombs I knew and imagined much, but had on account of my peculiar temperament been kept from all personal contact with churchyards and cemeteries."
8317,"The darkness, however, was now total; and we could only feel that he was standing in our midst."
8318,"They were Huguenots from Caude, and had encountered much opposition before the Providence selectmen allowed them to settle in the town."
8319,"""You are sorrowful, my love."
8320,"If we imagine this to be the case, the difficulty of shifting the partitions vanishes at once, if indeed any such difficulty could be supposed under any circumstances to exist."
8321,The origin of the diddle is referrable to the infancy of the Human Race.
8322,The first secret that had existed between them was the visits of Raymond to Evadne.
8323,"There I was, full in his view, with blacking and brushes."
8324,"""We are now,"" he continued, in that particularizing manner which distinguished him ""we are now close upon the Norwegian coast in the sixty eighth degree of latitude in the great province of Nordland and in the dreary district of Lofoden."
8325,"We got into his carriage, and proceeded towards Windsor."
8326,Nor did anything that had been alive come alive from the ruins.
8327,This is about all that I personally know of the now immortal Von Kempelen; but I have thought that even these few details would have interest for the public.
8328,"There is a gush of entrancing melody; there is an oppressive sense of strange sweet odor, there is a dream like intermingling to the eye of tall slender Eastern trees bosky shrubberies flocks of golden and crimson birds lily fringed lakes meadows of violets, tulips, poppies, hyacinths, and tuberoses long intertangled lines of silver streamlets and, upspringing confusedly from amid all, a mass of semi Gothic, semi Saracenic architecture sustaining itself by miracle in mid air, glittering in the red sunlight with a hundred oriels, minarets, and pinnacles; and seeming the phantom handiwork, conjointly, of the Sylphs, of the Fairies, of the Genii and of the Gnomes."
8329,"As the evening approached, the channel grew more narrow, the banks more and more precipitous; and these latter were clothed in rich, more profuse, and more sombre foliage."
8330,"We had at last what West had always longed for a real dead man of the ideal kind, ready for the solution as prepared according to the most careful calculations and theories for human use."
8331,"But, even where an edge is presented, two thorns will be necessary, operating, the one in two distinct directions, and the other in one."
8332,"Let me lay my head near your heart; let me die in your arms"" He sunk to the earth fainting, while I, nearly as lifeless, gazed on him in despair."
8333,"I know not; I lost sensation, and chains and darkness were the only objects that pressed upon me."
8334,"I'm going to burn his accursed diary, and if you men are wise you'll dynamite that altar stone up there, and pull down all the rings of standing stones on the other hills."
8335,"But now, when I appeared almost within grasp of my foe, my hopes were suddenly extinguished, and I lost all trace of him more utterly than I had ever done before."
8336,"""I loved you I love you neither anger nor pride dictates these lines; but a feeling beyond, deeper, and more unalterable than either."
8337,"All honour was now his, since the Tyrant of Syracuse would have the work of none save him or Kalos."
8338,"Having planned all this, I immediately took leave, and went in search of Talbot, but, on the way, I could not refrain from stepping into a hotel, for the purpose of inspecting the miniature; and this I did by the powerful aid of the glasses."
8339,"And when the red Aldebaran had crawled more than half way around the horizon, there were again darkness and silence."
8340,"A wavering flicker of light shewed through my transom, and the boards of the corridor began to groan with a ponderous load."
8341,"The upper part, where it had been doubled and folded, was all mildewed and rotten, and tore on being opened.'"
8342,"""There are various other tones of equal celebrity, but I shall mention only two more the tone transcendental and the tone heterogeneous."
8343,"Raymond was as usual courteous, though there was, on occasions, an unbidden haughtiness, or painful abruptness in his manners, which startled his gentle friend; his brow was not clouded but disdain sat on his lips, and his voice was harsh."
8344,"At every inn where we changed horses we heard of him, and I was possessed by alternate hope and fear."
8345,"Somehaow or other, though, he never would let him see one of the reg'lar things from right aout o' the water."
8346,"I did not strap on the strait jacket as was customary when he slept, since I saw that he was too feeble to be dangerous, even if he woke in mental disorder once more before passing away."
8347,The light seemed now to be more like a rain or hail of small violet particles than like a continuous beam.
8348,"Indeed, every appearance warranted me in apprehending a Simoom."
8349,"""At length my eyes, in going the circuit of the room, fell upon a trumpery fillagree card rack of pasteboard, that hung dangling by a dirty blue ribbon, from a little brass knob just beneath the middle of the mantel piece."
8350,By complying with his suicidal request I could immediately free myself from one who was no longer a companion but a menace.
8351,She dared not be present at the contest; yet she remained at home a prey to double solicitude.
8352,This was precisely what had formed the subject of my reflections.
8353,"She appeared to be fainting, and no attendants were within call."
8354,"And one night, sitting alone in the darkness of the olive grove, Kalos died."
8355,"What relation it had to the French ravings of Rhoby Harris and other inhabitants of the shunned house, imagination or future discovery alone could determine."
8356,Perdita looked up; she saw his angry glance; his hand was on the lock of the door.
8357,"Then, very softly and slowly, the acre great panel began to give inward at the top; and they saw that it was balanced."
8358,"He looked down into the low unquiet shrubbery, and up into the tall primeval trees, and up higher at the rustling heaven, and into the crimson moon."
8359,He composed heroic songs and began to write many a tale of enchantment and knightly adventure.
8360,"But, leaving this tide out of question, it may be said that very few human bodies will sink at all, even in fresh water, of their own accord."
8361,"This party made off immediately, and, after undergoing much suffering, finally arrived, in safety, at Ocracoke Inlet, on the third day after the wreck."
8362,"My reflections, be sure, were of no consolatory kind."
8363,"I have often wondered at the subject of her verses, and at the English dress of the Latin poet."
8364,"They lived in immense houses along Washington Street, and several were reputed to harbour in concealment certain living kinsfolk whose personal aspect forbade public view, and whose deaths had been reported and recorded."
8365,"The water far below was very abundant, and I could see two vigorous sets of falls upstream on my right and at least one downstream on my left."
8366,"From the circumstances of the observation, it is evident that the cause of this phenomenon is not either in our air, in the tube, in the moon, or in the eye of the spectator, but must be looked for in something an atmosphere?"
8367,And I lay close within my covert and observed the actions of the man.
8368,"But you will, I hope, soon quit this melancholy abode, for doubtless evidence can easily be brought to free you from the criminal charge."""
8369,I stood petrified with horror and rage.
8370,The means of egress employed by the murderers.
8371,"There had been servants Ann White especially who would not use the cellar kitchen, and at least three well defined legends bore upon the queer quasi human or diabolic outlines assumed by tree roots and patches of mould in that region."
8372,"At the foot of this sublime chasm, a fertile laughing valley reached from sea to sea, and beyond was spread the blue Aegean, sprinkled with islands, the light waves glancing beneath the sun."
8373,"Thus will he inevitably commit himself, at once, to his political destruction."
8374,"As night drew on, Madame Rogêt who was an infirm old lady, seventy years of age, was heard to express a fear ""that she should never see Marie again;"" but this observation attracted little attention at the time."
8375,"Old Benijah Corey had been his Uncle Christopher's hired man, and was aged even in those far off times of his boyhood visits."
8376,"They from outside will help, but they cannot take body without human blood."
8377,"With this friend, Joel Manton, I had often languidly disputed."
8378,"His downfall, too, will not be more precipitate than awkward."
8379,"Still Adrian was unable to guess the truth; he entreated them to visit us at Windsor, and they promised to come during the following month."
8380,"""When my dearest aunt died every one was too much occupied in their own grief to notice poor Justine, who had attended her during her illness with the most anxious affection."
8381,"He told me it was an old German viol player, a strange dumb man who signed his name as Erich Zann, and who played evenings in a cheap theatre orchestra; adding that Zann's desire to play in the night after his return from the theatre was the reason he had chosen this lofty and isolated garret room, whose single gable window was the only point on the street from which one could look over the terminating wall at the declivity and panorama beyond."
8382,"When he had gone, D came from the window, whither I had followed him immediately upon securing the object in view."
8383,"The family is connected, in some way, with Maelzel, of Automaton chess player memory."
8384,Bringing his right arm across his breast he actuates the little machinery necessary to guide the left arm and the fingers of the figure.
8385,"Let it not be supposed, from what I have just said, that I am detailing any mystery, or penning any romance."
8386,This reflection suggested some meaning some relevancy in the death's head.
8387,"As we went he reminded me of what I was to say and do, yet, strange to say, I entered the chamber without having once reflected on my purpose."
8388,"Some one did introduce me to the gentleman, I am sure at some public meeting, I know very well held about something of great importance, no doubt at some place or other, I feel convinced, whose name I have unaccountably forgotten."
8389,"By the bye, gentlemen, this this is a very well constructed house."""
8390,"On hearing this word, Felix came up hastily to the lady, who, when she saw him, threw up her veil, and I beheld a countenance of angelic beauty and expression."
8391,Few people had discovered some cowardice and much infirmity of purpose under this imposing exterior.
8392,"Manton remained thoughtful as I said this, but gradually reverted to his analytical mood."
8393,"After so long a period of an absorbing melancholy that resembled madness in its intensity and effects, he was glad to find that I was capable of taking pleasure in the idea of such a journey, and he hoped that change of scene and varied amusement would, before my return, have restored me entirely to myself."
8394,"Evadne made it her earnest request that the tale of their loves should not be revealed to his mother; and after for a while contesting the point, he yielded it to her."
8395,"Then they both started for the outer door; the woman lamely creeping, and the old man, after picking up the very book I had been reading, beckoning me as he drew his hood over that unmoving face or mask."
8396,The disposition of Old Bugs was as odd as his aspect.
8397,By reaching to the distance of two feet and a half we now suppose the shutter open to its whole extent a robber might have taken a firm grasp upon the trellis work.
8398,"The murderous mark of the fiend's grasp was on her neck, and the breath had ceased to issue from her lips."
8399,"He was good for nothing that morning, and stayed away from all his classes."
8400,"The only objection which occurred to me was, that the terms ""contemptible vagabond"" might have been better written ""odious and contemptible, wretch, villain and vagabond."""
8401,"Viscous obstacles were clawed through in rapid succession, and at length I felt that we had been borne to realms of greater remoteness than any we had previously known."
8402,"She answered that I was right, and might do with her as I pleased."
8403,"Ambition turned his thoughts from these designs ambition, which labouring through various lets and hindrances, had now led him to the summit of his hopes, in making him Lord Protector of England."
8404,"The throat of the old lady was not merely cut, but the head absolutely severed from the body: the instrument was a mere razor."
8405,"Know yourself, Raymond, and your indignation will cease; your complacency return."
8406,"Let fancy pourtray the joyous scene of the twentieth of June, such as even now my aching heart recalls it."
8407,"I was an outcast and a vagabond, when Adrian gently threw over me the silver net of love and civilization, and linked me inextricably to human charities and human excellence."
8408,"There was somthing in those dark deep orbs so liquid, and intense that even in happiness I could never meet their full gaze that mine did not overflow."
8409,"The original, for instance, is long, and verbose, is headed ""A Pocket Book Lost"" and requires the treasure, when found, to be left at No. Tom Street."
8410,"I had but one consolation in the fact that the imitation, apparently, was noticed by myself alone, and that I had to endure only the knowing and strangely sarcastic smiles of my namesake himself."
8411,"Let us converse of familiar things, in the old familiar language of the world which has so fearfully perished."
8412,"I was always conscious of my state when my wild thoughts seemed to drive me to insanity, and never betrayed them to aught but silence and solitude."
8413,"This ballast being discarded, and a clear sunshine evaporating the dew, and at the same time expanding the gas in the silk, the whole will again rapidly ascend."
8414,"Still he had many friends, admirers of his transcendent talents; his presence in the house, his eloquence, address and imposing beauty, were calculated to produce an electric effect."
8415,"He was of opinion that the moon was called Bendis in Thrace, Bubastis in Egypt, Dian in Rome, and Artemis in Greece."
8416,As she departed I turned my eyes in an inquiring manner toward my host.
8417,"""Do not catechise me, Lionel; I will do my duty by her, be assured."
8418,But at last I am going to defy the ban on speech about this thing.
8419,"He heard of the passing events of the day; he knew that, if he returned, and resumed his place in society, the entrance was still open, and it required but the will, to surround himself at once with the associations and habits of boyhood."
8420,We were not long after this necessary arrangement in effecting an escape from the dungeons of the sepulchre.
8421,"I questioned the nervous Mexican, repeating the sounds I had heard: ""El coyote?"
8422,"In spite of her coldness and long absence, he welcomed her with sensibility, displaying such affection as sought to heal the wounds of pride and sorrow, and was repulsed only by her total apparent want of sympathy."
8423,"""They's more abaout him as I knows than I kin tell ye, Mamie,"" she said, ""an' naowadays they's more nor what I know myself."
8424,"Another storm enlightened Jura with faint flashes; and another darkened and sometimes disclosed the Mole, a peaked mountain to the east of the lake."
8425,"Jostling King Pest through the open trap, the valiant Legs slammed the door down upon him with an oath, and strode towards the centre of the room."
8426,"Soon after, however, Felix approached with another man; I was surprised, as I knew that he had not quitted the cottage that morning, and waited anxiously to discover from his discourse the meaning of these unusual appearances."
8427,"The great wonder was, how Wyatt had been entrapped into such a match."
8428,"I am glad now to feel the current of thought flow through my mind, as the blood through the articulations of my frame; mere existence is pleasure; and I thank God that I live ""And all ye happy nurslings of mother earth, do ye not echo my words?"
8429,I came in during the interval between the third and fourth act.
8430,"As soon as he beheld my form, he placed his hands before his eyes and uttered a shrill scream; I drew his hand forcibly from his face and said, 'Child, what is the meaning of this?"
8431,"The fact is, that each and every one of the Magazines in question, gave Mr. ""Oppodeldoc"" a complete using up, in the ""Monthly Notices to Correspondents."""
8432,"So came he one night to the squalid cot of an antique shepherd, bent and dirty, who kept lean flocks on a stony slope above a quicksand marsh."
8433,"The next day both youths felt very tired, and knew they would sleep like logs when night came."
8434,"But little time will be left me to ponder upon my destiny the circles rapidly grow small we are plunging madly within the grasp of the whirlpool and amid a roaring, and bellowing, and thundering of ocean and of tempest, the ship is quivering, oh God and going down."
8435,Trepanning was accomplished successfully.
8436,"When I returned home my first care was to procure the whole works of this author, and afterwards of Paracelsus and Albertus Magnus."
8437,"The neighbouring minister was engaged to give me lessons in reading, writing and french, but he was without family and his manners even to me were always perfectly characteristic of the profession in the exercise of whose functions he chiefly shone, that of a schoolmaster."
8438,"With simplicity and courage she set aside the prejudices and opposition which were obstacles to my happiness, nor scrupled to give her hand, where she had given her heart."
8439,He was deeply read in books of chivalry and romance.
8440,Diana smelled the rat.
8441,"It was after one tremendous day when his eyes had glared on me like lightning and his voice sharp and broken seemed unable to express the extent of his emotion that in the evening when I was alone he joined me with a calm countenance, and not noticing my tears which I quickly dried when he approached, told me that in three days that sic he intended to remove with me to his estate in Yorkshire, and bidding me prepare left me hastily as if afraid of being questioned."
8442,"Besides, in drawing the picture of my early days, I also record those events which led, by insensible steps, to my after tale of misery, for when I would account to myself for the birth of that passion which afterwards ruled my destiny I find it arise, like a mountain river, from ignoble and almost forgotten sources; but, swelling as it proceeded, it became the torrent which, in its course, has swept away all my hopes and joys."
8443,We spent two months together in this house.
8444,"Endlessly down the horsemen floated, their chargers pawing the aether as if galloping over golden sands; and then the luminous vapours spread apart to reveal a greater brightness, the brightness of the city Celephaïs, and the sea coast beyond, and the snowy peak overlooking the sea, and the gaily painted galleys that sail out of the harbour toward distant regions where the sea meets the sky."
8445,"They know our infantine dispositions, which, however they may be afterwards modified, are never eradicated; and they can judge of our actions with more certain conclusions as to the integrity of our motives."
8446,"Upon these two words, therefore, I have mainly built my hopes of a full solution of the riddle."
8447,"Then came a period when luck was poor; interments fell off, and those that did occur were of specimens either too diseased or too maimed for use."
8448,I thus learned the following particulars.
8449,"Morning broke; and the old woman saw the corpse, marked with the fatal disease, close to her; her wrist was livid with the hold loosened by death."
8450,I bade the gentlemen welcome.
8451,"The reader will remember that this mark, although large, had been originally very indefinite; but, by slow degrees degrees nearly imperceptible, and which for a long time my Reason struggled to reject as fanciful it had, at length, assumed a rigorous distinctness of outline."
8452,The event which I am about to relate was unheralded by long premonitions.
8453,"""That is, sailors that didn't hail from Innsmouth."
8454,Perdita beheld with affright the encreasing disorder.
8455,In the anatomical structure the artist exhibited the highest skill.
8456,"But there seemed to have sprung up in the brain, that of which no words could convey to the merely human intelligence even an indistinct conception."
8457,"Nature decayed around me, and the sun became heatless; rain and snow poured around me; mighty rivers were frozen; the surface of the earth was hard and chill, and bare, and I found no shelter."
8458,The police are confounded by the seeming absence of motive not for the murder itself but for the atrocity of the murder.
8459,And her friend Pete Stowacki would not help because he wanted the child out of the way anyhow.
8460,"When I first saw you, Mr. Bedloe, at Saratoga, it was the miraculous similarity which existed between yourself and the painting which induced me to accost you, to seek your friendship, and to bring about those arrangements which resulted in my becoming your constant companion."
8461,"The ""forty fathoms"" must have reference only to portions of the channel close upon the shore either of Moskoe or Lofoden."
8462,"And again we saw a tram car, lone, windowless, dilapidated, and almost on its side."
8463,"Within its naturally walled enclosure were three extraordinary stones, forming a seat with a back and footstool."
8464,And there were many small shrines and temples where one might rest or pray to small gods.
8465,"But though Iranon was sad he ceased not to sing, and at evening told again his dreams of Aira, the city of marble and beryl."
8466,The position of the stars was my only guide.
8467,"Besides, was he not in the secret?"
8468,"I was now about to form another being of whose dispositions I was alike ignorant; she might become ten thousand times more malignant than her mate and delight, for its own sake, in murder and wretchedness."
8469,"The most sumptuous of these with wide terraced parterres extending back the whole way to Lafayette Street I took to be the home of Old Man Marsh, the afflicted refinery owner."
8470,"This circumstance, added to his well known integrity and dauntless courage, made me very desirous to engage him."
8471,"The advances of the malady are, luckily, gradual."
8472,I found myself similar yet at the same time strangely unlike to the beings concerning whom I read and to whose conversation I was a listener.
8473,"They never unlocked that attic door, but left the whole house as it was, dreaded and deserted."
8474,I gave him love only.
8475,"It is, of course, needless to say where was the locality."
8476,"Perhaps he dreaded my changing my mind, and thought it best to make sure of the prize at once you know how enthusiastic he is on all subjects connected with Natural History."
8477,"One window being down, a lady was seen on the back seat."
8478,"Fearful indeed the suspicion but more fearful the doom It may be asserted, without hesitation, that no event is so terribly well adapted to inspire the supremeness of bodily and of mental distress, as is burial before death."
8479,"Talbot, I learned from my betrothed, had just arrived in town."
8480,"During the two wakeful nights in question, and immediately after the disappearance of Mrs. Wyatt into the extra state room, I was attracted by certain singular cautious, subdued noises in that of her husband."
8481,"Wretched is he who looks back upon lone hours in vast and dismal chambers with brown hangings and maddening rows of antique books, or upon awed watches in twilight groves of grotesque, gigantic, and vine encumbered trees that silently wave twisted branches far aloft."
8482,The light of that conflagration will fade away; my ashes will be swept into the sea by the winds.
8483,"His habitual expression was one of kindly and well bred calm, whereas now a variety of emotions seemed struggling within him."
8484,"After travelling day and night I arrived with an anxious, yet a hoping heart, for why should he send for me if it were only to avoid me and to treat me with the apparent aversion that he had in London."
8485,"This morning we had again some little trouble with the rod of the propeller, which must be entirely remodelled, for fear of serious accident I mean the steel rod not the vanes."
8486,The first action of my life was the taking hold of my nose with both hands.
8487,"He descended the hills at a great rate, so that every body had soon a good look at him."
8488,"My head, heavy and reeling, drooped to my breast, and when next I looked up it was in a dream; with the Pole Star grinning at me through a window from over the horrible swaying trees of a dream swamp."
8489,"Pundit knows, you know; there can be no mistake about it."
8490,"The same effect of curvature or of color appeared twice, usually, but not oftener, at any one point of view."
8491,"Will he inform us, also, how frozen rain can be, at one and the same time, both 'holy light,' whatever that is, and an 'offspring?' which latter term, if we understand any thing about English, is only employed, with propriety, in reference to small babies of about six weeks old."
8492,"Its rowers, though distantly and indistinctly seen, were of an especially repellent aspect."
8493,"No traces of land or water could be discovered, and the whole was clouded with variable spots, and belted with tropical and equatorial zones."
8494,"These, for what reason I could not imagine, were her favourite and constant study and that in process of time they became my own, should be attributed to the simple but effectual influence of habit and example."
8495,"A beautiful creation, he would say, which may claim this superiority to its model, that good and evil is more easily seperated: the good rewarded in the way they themselves desire; the evil punished as all things evil ought to be punished, not by pain which is revolting to all philanthropy to consider but by quiet obscurity, which simply deprives them of their harmful qualities; why kill the serpent when you have extracted his fangs?"
8496,"I was pouring something from one test tube to another, and West was busy over the alcohol blast lamp which had to answer for a Bunsen burner in this gasless edifice, when from the pitch black room we had left there burst the most appalling and daemoniac succession of cries that either of us had ever heard."
8497,There is nothing he more despises than pretense.
8498,It was clear that the action of the caloric had been imperfect or unequal.
8499,Human art could have done no more in the delineation of her superhuman beauty.
8500,"Whilst the greater number of our nocturnal visions are perhaps no more than faint and fantastic reflections of our waking experiences Freud to the contrary with his puerile symbolism there are still a certain remainder whose immundane and ethereal character permits of no ordinary interpretation, and whose vaguely exciting and disquieting effect suggests possible minute glimpses into a sphere of mental existence no less important than physical life, yet separated from that life by an all but impassable barrier."
8501,"Dolphins still encircled the U , a somewhat remarkable circumstance considering the distance we had covered."
8502,"We had met years before, in medical school, and from the first I had shared his terrible researches."
8503,"I heard the roar of the waters: he held his course right on towards the brink and I became breathless with fear lest he should plunge down the dreadful precipice; I tried to augment my speed, but my knees failed beneath me, yet I had just reached him; just caught a part of his flowing robe, when he leapt down and I awoke with a violent scream."
8504,"He muttered to himself, as did the first seaman whom I saw in the hold, some low peevish syllables of a foreign tongue, and although the speaker was close at my elbow, his voice seemed to reach my ears from the distance of a mile."
8505,But at that moment a crash was heard.
8506,"It isn't so very far from the elevated as distance goes, but it's centuries away as the soul goes."
8507,"I could not see her thus lost, without exerting myself to remedy the evil remediless I knew, if I could not in the end bring her to reconcile herself to Raymond."
8508,"The happy do not feel poverty for delight is as a gold tissued robe, and crowns them with priceless gems."
8509,You are of this world; I am not.
8510,"On the morning of the fourteenth of June the day in which I first visited the ship, the lady suddenly sickened and died."
8511,"Remember that cleanliness, sobriety, and even good humour and benevolence, are our best medicines."""
8512,There was a gentleman of small fortune who lived near his family mansion who had three lovely daughters.
8513,"It is to meet and conquer the oppressor that I have vainly striven for aeons, held back by bodily encumbrances."
8514,"It may have been just fear, and it may have been fear mixed with a queer belated sort of remorse for bygone crudities."
8515,"It was probable that the inmate was absent, but secure that he had found the right person, our adventurous Protector was tempted to enter, to leave a purse on the table, and silently depart."
8516,"And then I thought again of his words ""I WILL BE WITH YOU ON YOUR WEDDING NIGHT."""
8517,"Wonder had gone away, and he had forgotten that all life is only a set of pictures in the brain, among which there is no difference betwixt those born of real things and those born of inward dreamings, and no cause to value the one above the other."
8518,This same evening his mother and sister arrived.
8519,"And as if sharpened by the coming deprivation of light, my desire to explore the watery secrets grew."
8520,"""Talbot,"" I said, ""you have an opera glass."
8521,"He worked northwest along pleasant back roads, past Hooper's Pond and the old brick powder house to where the pastures slope up to the ridge above the Miskatonic and give a lovely vista of Arkham's white Georgian steeples across leagues of river and meadow."
8522,"Just how fully the pursuit was organised and indeed, just what its purpose might be I could form no idea."
8523,"Trying it, I found it locked; but with a supreme burst of strength I overcame all obstacles and dragged it open inward."
8524,"He sat erect and rigid in his chair his teeth chattered, and his eyes were starting from their sockets."
8525,"This poor man, learned as La Place, guileless and unforeseeing as a child, had often been on the point of starvation, he, his pale wife and numerous offspring, while he neither felt hunger, nor observed distress."
8526,The physician declared that he died of the plague.
8527,"This panorama is indeed glorious, and I should rejoice in it but for the excess of its glory."
8528,"""I talk not of others, but myself,"" replied Raymond, ""and I am as fair an example to go by as another."
8529,"The supposition of the magnet is also untenable for if a magnet were the agent, any other magnet in the pocket of a spectator would disarrange the entire mechanism."
8530,The air was warm and stirred not.
8531,"There seemed a deep sense of life and joy about all; and although no airs blew from out the heavens, yet every thing had motion through the gentle sweepings to and fro of innumerable butterflies, that might have been mistaken for tulips with wings."
8532,"Then they vanished, hurrying southward where they were fully a month overdue."
8533,"On the third morning of the wanderers' stay in Ulthar, Menes could not find his kitten; and as he sobbed aloud in the market place certain villagers told him of the old man and his wife, and of sounds heard in the night."
8534,"The immense mountains and precipices that overhung me on every side, the sound of the river raging among the rocks, and the dashing of the waterfalls around spoke of a power mighty as Omnipotence and I ceased to fear or to bend before any being less almighty than that which had created and ruled the elements, here displayed in their most terrific guise."
8535,"He was younger, less worn, more passionless than my father and in no degree reminded me of him: he suffered under immediate grief yet its gentle influence instead of calling feelings otherwise dormant into action, seemed only to veil that which otherwise would have been too dazzling for me."
8536,"The site of the village is in a perfectly circular valley, about a quarter of a mile in circumference, and entirely surrounded by gentle hills, over whose summit the people have never yet ventured to pass."
8537,I seem to ramble along without much Logick or Continuity when I endeavour to recall the Past; and fear I light upon but few Incidents which others have not before discuss'd.
8538,"Lofty hills, rising occasionally into mountains, and covered with vegetation in wild luxuriance, still shut in the scene."
8539,"Some courtesy, nevertheless, is due to the presence of this company, and to yourself, at this moment, as my guest."
8540,"Accompanying the letter of 'Oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, we find sundry lines of most disgusting and unmeaning rant about 'angels and ministers of grace' rant such as no madman short of a Nat Lee, or an 'Oppodeldoc,' could possibly perpetrate."
8541,"Among the Kaliris was an aged chief called Mwanu, who possessed not only a highly retentive memory, but a singular degree of intelligence and interest in old legends."
8542,"Their arrangement was odd, and seemed to follow the symmetries of some cosmic geometry unknown to earth or the solar system."
8543,"The negro had been knocked out, and a moment's examination shewed us that he would permanently remain so."
8544,"By the application of praise, censure, and exhortation, she tried to seek and strike the fitting chords; and though the melody that followed her touch seemed discord to her, she built her hopes on his talents, and felt sure that she would at last win him."
8545,"Slightly later, when a change and a gentle tremor seemed to affect the dead limbs, West stuffed a pillow like object violently over the twitching face, not withdrawing it until the corpse appeared quiet and ready for our attempt at reanimation."
8546,"In saying that West's fear of his specimens was nebulous, I have in mind particularly its complex nature."
8547,"""When night came I quitted my retreat and wandered in the wood; and now, no longer restrained by the fear of discovery, I gave vent to my anguish in fearful howlings."
8548,"On the contrary, the disease gained virulence, while starvation did its accustomed work."
8549,In the meantime I will make a man of you I will provided always that you follow my counsel.
8550,These had been torn out by the roots.
8551,"One thing became more and more evident the longer I gazed: an artist, and one with a most scrupulous eye for form, had superintended all these arrangements."
8552,At last the figure spoke in a rumbling voice that chilled me through with its dull hollowness and latent malevolence.
8553,"Pale and tearful, she almost forgot her duties as hostess; her eyes were fixed on her children."
8554,"In a few minutes, the pan having become thoroughly heated, I removed the slip, and, to my inexpressible joy, found it spotted, in several places, with what appeared to be figures arranged in lines."
8555,The change happened whilst I slept.
8556,"They had chained him down to things that are, and had then explained the workings of those things till mystery had gone out of the world."
8557,"Shaken with such a mental revolution as I had never before known, I now resolved to visit Mate Johansen in Oslo."
8558,"""I believe there's a chance of putting it out of business."
8559,"A general pause ensued, and I began to hope that the farce was at an end."
8560,"These reflections have dispelled the agitation with which I began my letter, and I feel my heart glow with an enthusiasm which elevates me to heaven, for nothing contributes so much to tranquillize the mind as a steady purpose a point on which the soul may fix its intellectual eye."
8561,"""Yes, yes, yes I remember it very well very queer indeed Both of you gone just one year."
8562,"I will tell only of the lone tomb in the darkest of the hillside thickets; the deserted tomb of the Hydes, an old and exalted family whose last direct descendant had been laid within its black recesses many decades before my birth."
8563,"Upon my word, I almost envy you the possession of him; a remarkably fine, and no doubt a very valuable animal."
8564,"All my days have I watched it and listened to it, and I know it well."
8565,"This exception was found in a compartment wall, not very thick, which stood about the middle of the house, and against which had rested the head of my bed."
8566,"Is not short payne well borne that brings long ease, And lays the soul to sleep in quiet grave?F ""Do you mark my words; I have learned the language of despair: I have it all by heart, for I am Despair; and a strange being am I, joyous, triumphant Despair."
8567,To part with what is a part of myself; without whom I have no memory and no futurity?
8568,"It may have been wholly an hallucination from the shock caused at that instant by the sudden and complete destruction of the building in a cataclysm of German shell fire who can gainsay it, since West and I were the only proved survivors?"
8569,"I need not describe the easy artifices by which I substituted, in his bed room candle stand, a wax light of my own making for the one which I there found."
8570,"In the meantime the wind is still in our poop, and, as we carry a crowd of canvas, the ship is at times lifted bodily from out the sea Oh, horror upon horror the ice opens suddenly to the right, and to the left, and we are whirling dizzily, in immense concentric circles, round and round the borders of a gigantic amphitheatre, the summit of whose walls is lost in the darkness and the distance."
8571,"I do not wish, however, to trace the course of my miserable profligacy here a profligacy which set at defiance the laws, while it eluded the vigilance of the institution."
8572,"""Having thus arranged my dwelling and carpeted it with clean straw, I retired, for I saw the figure of a man at a distance, and I remembered too well my treatment the night before to trust myself in his power."
8573,"That the newspapers which were stuck all over the little balloon were newspapers of Holland, and therefore could not have been made in the moon."
8574,"Controlling my muscles, and realising afresh how plainly visible I was, I resumed my brisker and feignedly shambling pace; though keeping my eyes on that hellish and ominous reef as long as the opening of South Street gave me a seaward view."
8575,"Yet the force of the elements was such as to overcome my scruples, and I did not hesitate to wheel my machine up the weedy rise to the closed door which seemed at once so suggestive and secretive."
8576,"We had always dwelled together, beneath a tropical sun, in the Valley of the Many Colored Grass."
8577,Himself and a companion had captured the Ourang Outang.
8578,"Much, however, might be ascertained."
8579,"My strict integrity, economy, and rigorous business habits, here again came into play."
8580,"I followed her, and strove to inspire more hope than I could myself entertain; but she shook her head mournfully."
8581,"But until then, I conjure you, do not mention or allude to it."
8582,"There were eaten many strange delicacies at that feast; peacocks from the isles of Nariel in the Middle Ocean, young goats from the distant hills of Implan, heels of camels from the Bnazic desert, nuts and spices from Cydathrian groves, and pearls from wave washed Mtal dissolved in the vinegar of Thraa."
8583,"I seized the favourable moment, and endeavoured to awaken in her something beyond the killing torpor of grief."
8584,"Surely this is a loud noise even for Antioch It argues some commotion of unusual interest."""
8585,"Shaking off from my spirit what must have been a dream, I scanned more narrowly the real aspect of the building."
8586,"""Being thus provided, I resolved to reside in this hovel until something should occur which might alter my determination."
8587,Now where is that rudderless boat?
8588,"Some new and wild note in the drumming and chanting, perceptible but slightly to me, had acted on him in startling fashion; and with a wild outcry he forged ahead unguided in the cavern's gloom."
8589,"Its centre, and of course, its greatest width, came just over the yawning gulf."
8590,"Elizabeth observed my agitation for some time in timid and fearful silence, but there was something in my glance which communicated terror to her, and trembling, she asked, ""What is it that agitates you, my dear Victor?"
8591,His funeral took place on Thursday.
8592,He makes much ado before he can get suited with a boarding house.
8593,"Even where a cannon is fired over a corpse, and it rises before at least five or six days' immersion, it sinks again, if let alone."
8594,God knows how many there were there must have been thousands.
8595,I have made no addition to my cabinet since we met.
8596,"And yet there was a rascally corporation which asked me to do this very thing this very thing I did not reply to their absurd proposition, of course; but I felt it a duty to go that same night, and lamp black the whole of their palace."
8597,Idris endeavoured to calm Perdita; but the poor girl's agitation deprived her of all power of self command.
8598,"About this wall a dense crowd were collected, and many persons seemed to be examining a particular portion of it with very minute and eager attention."
8599,"""My travels were long and the sufferings I endured intense."
8600,"""For God's sake, stay only a few minutes,"" says the finder of the book ""the true claimant will presently appear."""
8601,The myrmidons of G were able at once to comprehend how and why such an atrocity might have been committed.
8602,"What with mustachios and whiskers, there was none of the rest of his face to be seen."
8603,"A second later the downward motion of the knife broke the spell completely, and he dropped the bowl with a resounding bell like clangour while his hands darted out frantically to stop the monstrous deed."
8604,"On the third day my mother sickened; her fever was accompanied by the most alarming symptoms, and the looks of her medical attendants prognosticated the worst event."
8605,"But death was no evil to me if the loss of Elizabeth were balanced with it, and I therefore, with a contented and even cheerful countenance, agreed with my father that if my cousin would consent, the ceremony should take place in ten days, and thus put, as I imagined, the seal to my fate."
8606,"He was gazing at me gaspingly and fascinatedly, but did not seem afraid."
8607,"The bolt fitted perfectly, and I was somewhat relieved when I knew that I could shoot it firmly upon retiring."
8608,"Ay, stare if you please; but it is nevertheless true."
8609,She recognized her preserver.
8610,I struggled with its weight; I placed it partially in its destined position.
8611,"""The Montresors,"" I replied, ""were a great and numerous family."""
8612,"I calc'late I was asleep, else I'd a heerd ye I ain't as young as I uster be, an' I need a paowerful sight o' naps naowadays."
8613,"How old do you suppose him to be?"""
8614,Dark draperies hung upon the walls.
8615,"I continued my caresses, and, when I prepared to go home, the animal evinced a disposition to accompany me."
8616,"his own trusting, devoted, affectionate Perdita, whose generous belief galled him doubly, when he remembered the parade of innocence with which it had been exacted."
8617,"He is so; but then he is wholly uneducated: he is as silent as a Turk, and a kind of ignorant carelessness attends him, which, while it renders his conduct the more astonishing, detracts from the interest and sympathy which otherwise he would command."
8618,"I now bent to the left around the ruinous green; still gazing toward the ocean as it blazed in the spectral summer moonlight, and watching the cryptical flashing of those nameless, unexplainable beacons."
8619,Then he said we were the victims of a vicious bull though the animal was a difficult thing to place and account for.
8620,We visited the tomb of the illustrious Hampden and the field on which that patriot fell.
8621,"Indeed, who would credit that Justine Moritz, who was so amiable, and fond of all the family, could suddenly become so capable of so frightful, so appalling a crime?"""
8622,"There were secrets, said the peasants, which must not be uncovered; secrets that had lain hidden since the plague came to the children of Partholan in the fabulous years beyond history."
8623,"Ahead rose a narrow staircase, flanked by a small door probably leading to the cellar, while to the left and right were closed doors leading to rooms on the ground floor."
8624,Men looked at one another and muttered.
8625,Yet he would not propose the separation.
8626,The weight upon my spirit was sensibly lightened as I plunged yet deeper in the ravine of Arve.
8627,"None but Adrian could have tamed the motley population of London, which, like a troop of unbitted steeds rushing to their pastures, had thrown aside all minor fears, through the operation of the fear paramount."
8628,"Whilst the king and his nobles feasted within the palace, and viewed the crowning dish as it awaited them on golden platters, others feasted elsewhere."
8629,No real danger was at any time apprehended.
8630,"His results, brought about by the very soul and essence of method, have, in truth, the whole air of intuition."
8631,"The general fact is, that the house was never regarded by the solid part of the community as in any real sense ""haunted""."
8632,"But a few months have elapsed since I believed that I was all the world to you; and that there was no happiness or grief for you on earth unshared by your Mathilda your child: that happy time is no longer, and what I most dreaded in this world is come upon me."
8633,"I had chosen night time for our journey to London, that the change and desolation of the country might be the less observable."
8634,"From the air of hushed fright at Osborn's store they knew something hideous had happened, and soon learned of the annihilation of the Elmer Frye house and family."
8635,"He hailed from Arkham, boarded with a family who came from Ipswich, and went back home whenever he got a moment off."
8636,He wished as much as possible to obliterate the memory of the scenes that had taken place in Ireland and never alluded to them or suffered me to speak of my misfortunes.
8637,"My life was like that of an animal, and my mind was in danger of degenerating into that which informs brute nature."
8638,"Toward the last I became acutely afraid of West, for he began to look at me that way."
8639,"Who that knows what ""life"" is, would pine for this feverish species of existence?"
8640,"With five feeble senses we pretend to comprehend the boundlessly complex cosmos, yet other beings with a wider, stronger, or different range of senses might not only see very differently the things we see, but might see and study whole worlds of matter, energy, and life which lie close at hand yet can never be detected with the senses we have."
8641,He asked for my sister; and I delivered her message.
8642,"Leaning my cycle against the wall I opened the door at the left, and crossed into a small low ceiled chamber but dimly lighted by its two dusty windows and furnished in the barest and most primitive possible way."
8643,"I touched it; and the head, with about a quarter of an inch of the shank, came off in my fingers."
8644,"My location, to be sure, was an excellent one, being central, and I had capital blacking and brushes."
8645,Certainly not but are we prepared to say that there was not the frustrated design?
8646,"I can comprehend you thus far that certain operations of what we term Nature, or the natural laws, will, under certain conditions, give rise to that which has all the appearance of creation."
8647,"I had a very confused knowledge of kingdoms, wide extents of country, mighty rivers, and boundless seas."
8648,"Looks like a terrible rattletrap I've never ben on it."""
8649,"Leading me within, he steered a course in utter blackness over what seemed to be a gravel path, and finally up a flight of stone steps to the door of the house, which he unlocked and opened for me."
8650,"Their forms vaguely suggested the anthropoid, while their heads were the heads of fish, with prodigious bulging eyes that never closed."
8651,"""Mein Gott"" said the Angel of the Odd, apparently much softened at my distress; ""mein Gott, te man is eder ferry dronk or ferry zorry."
8652,Cats they caterwauled.
8653,"They have acquired new and almost unlimited powers; they can command the thunders of heaven, mimic the earthquake, and even mock the invisible world with its own shadows."""
8654,"""Do so, if you will; but I will not."
8655,"He would forsake her, England, his friends, the scenes of his youth, the hopes of coming time, he would seek another country, and in other scenes begin life again."
8656,"Besides, what was found might possibly have more than one explanation."
8657,Once more let me implore you to return.
8658,"He evidently feared the physical effect of violent emotion, yet his will and driving force waxed rather than waned, and he refused to be confined to his bed."
8659,He did not wish to go to sleep in a room alone especially since he thought he had glimpsed in the evening twilight the repellent old woman whose image had become so horribly transferred to his dreams.
8660,"During the early part of my life there is little to relate, and I will be brief; but I must be allowed to dwell a little on the years of my childhood that it may be apparent how when one hope failed all life was to be a blank; and how when the only affection I was permitted to cherish was blasted my existence was extinguished with it."
8661,I nebber did see sick a deuced bug he kick and he bite ebery ting what cum near him.
8662,None but those who have experienced them can conceive of the enticements of science.
8663,"""As I fixed my eyes on the child, I saw something glittering on his breast."
8664,"I am about to proceed on a long and difficult voyage, the emergencies of which will demand all my fortitude: I am required not only to raise the spirits of others, but sometimes to sustain my own, when theirs are failing."
8665,and whence came he? and what were his purposes?
8666,"Yet this superiority even this equality was in truth acknowledged by no one but myself; our associates, by some unaccountable blindness, seemed not even to suspect it."
8667,"I have always believed that such strange, inaccessible worlds exist at our very elbows, and now I believe I have found a way to break down the barriers."
8668,"My knowledge of the worldly principles of Lord Raymond, would have ever prevented me from applying to him, however deep my distress might have been."
8669,"The sweet girl welcomed me with warm affection, yet tears were in her eyes as she beheld my emaciated frame and feverish cheeks."
8670,"But, without educated thought, he erred continually by the very intensity of his investigations."
8671,"Even music was not wanting: banners floated in the air, and the shrill fife and loud trumpet breathed forth sounds of encouragement and victory."
8672,"In that portion of the cloth forming the bottom, was likewise, a fourth window, of the same kind, and corresponding with a small aperture in the floor of the car itself."
8673,To some among the poor this was matter of exultation.
8674,No one was spoken of as frequenting the house.
8675,A mist covered both that and the surrounding mountains.
8676,All these circumstances were now related to Adrian and Idris.
8677,Why had I not followed him and closed with him in mortal strife?
8678,He came so close to my person that I felt his hot breath upon my face.
8679,"The antagonist as we have before observed is not suffered to play at the board of the Automaton, but is seated at some distance from the machine."
8680,"Vast, Polyphemus like, and loathsome, it darted like a stupendous monster of nightmares to the monolith, about which it flung its gigantic scaly arms, the while it bowed its hideous head and gave vent to certain measured sounds."
8681,For that visitor was neither Italian nor policeman.
8682,"Yog Sothoth is the key to the gate, whereby the spheres meet."
8683,"Now if, after all, I am wrong in my induction from this ribbon, that the Frenchman was a sailor belonging to a Maltese vessel, still I can have done no harm in saying what I did in the advertisement."
8684,"The lady whom I was much astonished to hear addressed as Madame Joyeuse, after the description of Madame Joyeuse she had just given blushed up to the eyebrows, and seemed exceedingly abashed at the reproof."
8685,"We left Edinburgh in a week, passing through Coupar, St. Andrew's, and along the banks of the Tay, to Perth, where our friend expected us."
8686,"Yet but a brief period elapsed, ere a second more violent disorder again threw her upon a bed of suffering; and from this attack her frame, at all times feeble, never altogether recovered."
8687,"There he would ask to be left alone, as if wishing to speak with unseen things."
8688,"This state of feeling arose, perhaps, from the Madonna like and matronly air of the face; and yet I at once understood that it could not have arisen entirely from this."
8689,"Languor was changed to ardour, the slow step converted to a speedy pace, while the hollow murmur of the multitude, inspired by one feeling, and that deadly, filled the air, drowning the clang of arms and sound of music."
8690,The usual one of imports was entirely cut off.
8691,"By the reigning God it is true; the paltry earldom of Windsor shall no longer content him, who will inherit the rights which must for ever appertain to the person who possesses it."
8692,"I hardly know how to continue, since conditions so singular are involved; but I will do my best, not even trying to differentiate betwixt the real and the apparent."
8693,"Once he had the landlord nail tin over it, but the next night the rats gnawed a fresh hole in making which they pushed or dragged out into the room a curious little fragment of bone."
8694,"No, he said hastily, as the question was put to him, he did not know the subject of the picture."
8695,There are chemical infusions by which the animal frame can be preserved forever from corruption; the Bi chloride of Mercury is one.
8696,"One must not, for example, linger much around the Marsh refinery, or around any of the still used churches, or around the pillared Order of Dagon Hall at New Church Green."
8697,They the Hungarians differed very essentially from their Eastern authorities.
8698,"And I, the nearest kinsman of the Earl of Windsor, was to propose his election."
8699,"The most thrilling peculiarity of this incident, nevertheless, is involved in what Mr. S. himself asserts."
8700,"Return to Windsor then, my brother; for such you are by every tie fill the double place my absence imposes on you, and let me, in all my sufferings here, turn my eyes towards that dear seclusion, and say There is peace."""
8701,"Many of his questions seemed highly out of place to his visitor, especially those which tried to connect the latter with strange cults or societies; and Wilcox could not understand the repeated promises of silence which he was offered in exchange for an admission of membership in some widespread mystical or paganly religious body."
8702,"But after a time his alcohol enfeebled brain would wander from the subject, and with a foolish grin he would turn once more to his mop or cleaning rag."
8703,Her victory was announced by an unusual tranquillity and gladness of soul which followed the relinquishing of my ancient and latterly tormenting studies.
8704,"Learning was in his blood, for his great grandfather, Sir Robert Jermyn, Bt., had been an anthropologist of note, whilst his great great great grandfather, Sir Wade Jermyn, was one of the earliest explorers of the Congo region, and had written eruditely of its tribes, animals, and supposed antiquities."
8705,"If it indeed be that; if the efforts of the virtuous now, are to make the future inhabitants of this fair world more happy; if the labours of those who cast aside selfishness, and try to know the truth of things, are to free the men of ages, now far distant but which will one day come, from the burthen under which those who now live groan, and like you weep bitterly; if they free them but from one of what are now the necessary evils of life, truly I will not fail but will with my whole soul aid the work."
8706,"The shell had been merciful, in a way but West could never feel as certain as he wished, that we two were the only survivors."
8707,"""Death,"" I said, ""any death but that of the pit"" Fool might I have not known that into the pit it was the object of the burning iron to urge me?"
8708,"""This is my first experience in a place like this, but I am a student of life, and don't want to miss any experience."
8709,"I do not know just how much of the whole tale has been told even to me, and I have many reasons for not wishing to probe deeper."
8710,"Now this globe of the earth turns upon its own axis revolves spins round these twenty four thousand miles of extent, going from west to east, in precisely twenty four hours."
8711,A little population occupied its halls.
8712,"Arithmetical or algebraical calculations are, from their very nature, fixed and determinate."
8713,Between gasps Luther tried to stammer out his tale to Mrs. Corey.
8714,"""I thought so I knew it hurrah"" vociferated Legrand, letting the negro go, and executing a series of curvets and caracols, much to the astonishment of his valet, who, arising from his knees, looked, mutely, from his master to myself, and then from myself to his master."
8715,"West was then a small, slender, spectacled youth with delicate features, yellow hair, pale blue eyes, and a soft voice, and it was uncanny to hear him dwelling on the relative merits of Christchurch Cemetery and the potter's field."
8716,"When they separated Felix kissed the hand of the stranger and said, 'Good night sweet Safie.'"
8717,"Indignation now transported him; his words I guessed were fraught with disdain then turning from his coward followers, he addressed himself to enter the city alone."
8718,"Now I am the first man in the state, burthen of every ballad, and object of old women's mumbled devotions."
8719,"""Bosom"" said I. ""Pompey, will you never be ready with that wig?"
8720,"During this description I had kept a tight rein on my emotions, but my face must have betrayed my mounting fears."
8721,"""Mille pardons Ma'm'selle"" replied Monsieur De Kock, thus addressed ""a thousand pardons I had no intention of offending."
8722,"His features had perhaps been noble once, but were now seamed with the ghastly effects of terrible dissipation."
8723,All the time she could command she spent in solitude.
8724,"We could not get bodies fresh enough to shew any trace of reason when reanimated, so had perforce created nameless horrors."
8725,"I ought to have familiarized the old De Lacey to me, and by degrees to have discovered myself to the rest of his family, when they should have been prepared for my approach."
8726,"It surely was bad enough there was riots over it, and all sorts of ghastly doings that I don't believe ever got outside of town and it left the place in awful shape."
8727,"There is not, however, the shadow of a clew apparent."""
8728,"She never mentioned her father to Perdita, she appeared half afraid when she spoke of him to me, and though I tried to draw her out on the subject, and to dispel the gloom that hung about her ideas concerning him, I could not succeed."
8729,"From the rock of Gibraltar, now dwindled into a dim speck, the dark Mediterranean sea, dotted with shining islands as the heaven is dotted with stars, spread itself out to the eastward as far as my vision extended, until its entire mass of waters seemed at length to tumble headlong over the abyss of the horizon, and I found myself listening on tiptoe for the echoes of the mighty cataract."
8730,"So far I had seen no people in the town, but there now came signs of a sparse habitation curtained windows here and there, and an occasional battered motor car at the curb."
8731,This would remove the chief obstacle in a journey to the moon.
8732,"""But my toils now drew near a close, and in two months from this time I reached the environs of Geneva."
8733,"In my joy I thrust my hand into the live embers, but quickly drew it out again with a cry of pain."
8734,To this day I do not know whether they saw me or not.
8735,"Its pleasant places were deserted; its temples and palaces were converted into tombs; its energies, bent before towards the highest objects of human ambition, were now forced to converge to one point, the guarding against the innumerous arrows of the plague."
8736,"P. Is God, then, material?"
8737,"Human utterance can best convey the general character of our experiences by calling them plungings or soarings; for in every period of revelation some part of our minds broke boldly away from all that is real and present, rushing aërially along shocking, unlighted, and fear haunted abysses, and occasionally tearing through certain well marked and typical obstacles describable only as viscous, uncouth clouds or vapours."
8738,"They talked of the old cotter and his wife, of the caravan of dark wanderers, of small Menes and his black kitten, of the prayer of Menes and of the sky during that prayer, of the doings of the cats on the night the caravan left, and of what was later found in the cottage under the dark trees in the repellent yard."
8739,"Shall we, in these desart halls, under this wintry sky, sit with closed eyes and folded hands, expecting death?"
8740,"A machine is contrived for the purpose, and we have a minute description of it, which is materially helped out by a steel engraving."
8741,"My heart was full of deep affection, but it was calm from its very depth and fulness."
8742,"""At length, quite overcome by exertion, and by a certain oppressive closeness of the atmosphere, I seated myself beneath a tree."
8743,"""But, having established a single word, we are enabled to establish a vastly important point; that is to say, several commencements and terminations of other words."
8744,"Ryland was roused to resistance; he asserted that his sufferance alone had permitted the encrease of this party; but the time for indulgence was passed, and with one motion of his arm he would sweep away the cobwebs that blinded his countrymen."
8745,"This elevation may appear immense, but the estimate upon which it is calculated gave a result in all probability far inferior to the truth."
8746,"This, O this may be the last time that you will surround me thus"" Abruptly she stopped, and then cried: ""What have I said?"
8747,"Our eldest in some degree understood the scenes passing around, and at times, he with serious looks questioned me concerning the reason of so vast a desolation."
8748,"""You talk of the future,"" she said, ""while the present is all to me."
8749,"Then there were the great figures upon the dial plate how intelligent how intellectual, they all looked And presently they took to dancing the Mazurka, and I think it was the figure V. who performed the most to my satisfaction."
8750,"The aristocratical party, the richest and most influential men in England, appeared less agitated than the others, for the question was to be discussed without their interference."
8751,"The truth is, it is impossible to conceive spirit, since it is impossible to imagine what is not."
8752,She understood my gesture; again her head fell; again her fingers worked restlessly.
8753,"The doctor, though, was chiefly disturbed by the chattering night birds outside; a seemingly limitless legion of whippoorwills that cried their endless message in repetitions timed diabolically to the wheezing gasps of the dying man."
8754,"Suddenly there came an icy hand upon my forehead, and an impatient, gibbering voice whispered the word ""Arise"" within my ear."
8755,I knelt at her feet in gratitude and adoration.
8756,"My brain reeled as I hearkened entranced, to a melody more than mortal to assumptions and aspirations which mortality had never before known."
8757,"He did not know where he wished to go, but felt that once more he would have to sacrifice his classes."
8758,"""My father left it Where is he?"
8759,"His Grace bowed, dealt, and arose from the table en presentant le Roi."
8760,"Our change of cheer struck those nearest to us; and, by means of Ryland's servants, the report soon spread that he had fled from the plague in London."
8761,"Anguish deprived her of presence of mind; she gave up to me and Clara the physician's and nurse's parts; she sat by the bed, holding one little burning hand, and, with glazed eyes fixed on her babe, passed the long day in one unvaried agony."
8762,Corroborated the previous evidence in every respect but one.
8763,"When, in exhibiting the interior of the box, Maelzel has thrown open the door No. I, and also the door immediately behind it, he holds a lighted candle at the back door as mentioned above and moves the entire machine to and fro with a view of convincing the company that the cupboard No. is entirely filled with machinery."
8764,He dislikes children.
8765,"I will not deny that when I called to mind the sinister countenance of the person whom I met upon the staircase, on the day of my arrival at the house, I had no desire to oppose what I regarded as at best but a harmless, and by no means an unnatural, precaution."
8766,Curtis Whateley of the undecayed branch was holding the telescope when the Arkham party detoured radically from the swath.
8767,"I had scarcely completed my work, when a footstep in the hold forced me to make use of it."
8768,"In the street, next morning, my great, great, grandmother encountered Talbot, an old Parisian acquaintance; and the conversation, very naturally turned upon myself."
8769,It soon became known that Adrian took great delight in his park and preserves.
8770,"And I have in mind that the shadows of the trees which fell upon the lake remained not on the surface where they fell, but sunk slowly and steadily down, and commingled with the waves, while from the trunks of the trees other shadows were continually coming out, and taking the place of their brothers thus entombed."
8771,"But if this idea was not, even then, altogether adopted, I could at least doubt no longer, when, arising from the bed, tottering, with feeble steps, with closed eyes, and with the manner of one bewildered in a dream, the thing that was enshrouded advanced boldly and palpably into the middle of the apartment."
8772,"I moved my hand to his head, whose mechanical nodding I was able to stop, and shouted in his ear that we must both flee from the unknown things of the night."
8773,"He spoke this with a voice so modulated to the different feelings expressed in his speech, with an eye so full of lofty design and heroism, that can you wonder that these men were moved?"
8774,"Here tearing down the skeleton which swung over the table, he laid it about him with so much energy and good will, that, as the last glimpses of light died away within the apartment, he succeeded in knocking out the brains of the little gentleman with the gout."
8775,"So true it is, that man's mind alone was the creator of all that was good or great to man, and that Nature herself was only his first minister."
8776,"At length, with a wild desperation at heart, I quickly unclosed my eyes."
8777,"But, strange to say I was neither astonished nor horror stricken."
8778,"My uncle is not pleased with the idea of a military career in a distant country, but Ernest never had your powers of application."
8779,I PRESUME everybody has heard of me.
8780,"We have been unfortunate, and recent events have drawn us from that everyday tranquillity befitting my years and infirmities."
8781,"Do not suppose, however, that I wish to dictate happiness to you or that a delay on your part would cause me any serious uneasiness."
8782,As a child I had not been content with the results promised by the modern professors of natural science.
8783,"In the meantime, the lunatics had a jolly season of it that you may swear."
8784,"When the clouds veiled the sky, and the wind scattered them there and here, rending their woof, and strewing its fragments through the aerial plains then we rode out, and sought new spots of beauty and repose."
8785,"The only consideration which restrains us is our conception of its atomic constitution; and here, even, we have to seek aid from our notion of an atom, as something possessing in infinite minuteness, solidity, palpability, weight."
8786,"There are vocal qualities peculiar to men, and vocal qualities peculiar to beasts; and it is terrible to hear the one when the source should yield the other."
8787,"Soon cross streets and junctions began to appear; those on the left leading to shoreward realms of unpaved squalor and decay, while those on the right shewed vistas of departed grandeur."
8788,"Passing into the parlor, I found myself with Mr. Landor for this, I afterwards found, was his name."
8789,"At length I said, ""Well, but G , what of the purloined letter?"
8790,Could I resist its glow?
8791,Don't say a syllable about the Infernal Twoness.
8792,Whether he had died or still lingered in the dungeons of Austria was not known.
8793,"Where did you get him?"""
8794,"To crown my vexation of spirit, Perdita, the visionary Perdita, seemed to awake to real life with transport, when she told me that the Earl of Windsor was about to arrive."
8795,"It was a grey, bleak day, with now and then a drizzle of rain; and heavier and heavier clouds seemed to be piling themselves up beyond the hills to the northwest."
8796,"Our freedom from long sleep was surprising, for seldom did we succumb more than an hour or two at a time to the shadow which had now grown so frightful a menace."
8797,"Its rightful owner saw, but, of course, dared not call attention to the act, in the presence of the third personage who stood at her elbow."
8798,"Then came a noxious rush of noisome, frigid air from that same dreaded direction, followed by a piercing shriek just beside me on that shocking rifted tomb of man and monster."
8799,"All was uproar, crime, remorse and hate, yet still the tenderest love; and what first awoke me to the firm resolve of conquering my passion and of restoring her father to my child was the sight of your bitter and sympathizing sorrows."
8800,"In this trim we rode safely enough for forty eight hours the ship proving herself an excellent sea boat in many respects, and shipping no water of any consequence."
8801,"Thither I soon went; the uncalculating vanity of my parents furnishing me with an outfit and annual establishment, which would enable me to indulge at will in the luxury already so dear to my heart, to vie in profuseness of expenditure with the haughtiest heirs of the wealthiest earldoms in Great Britain."
8802,The other opening was directly at the southern end of the vale.
8803,"Perdita's questions had ceased; she leaned on my arm, panting with emotions too acute for tears our men pulled alongside the other boat."
8804,"Birch, before , had been the village undertaker of Peck Valley; and was a very calloused and primitive specimen even as such specimens go."
8805,"If it came from within the house, we had the window ladders; if from outside, the door and the stairs."
8806,"Tumult filled the before quiet streets women and children deserted their homes, escaping they knew not whither fathers, husbands, and sons, stood trembling, not for themselves, but for their loved and defenceless relations."
8807,"I recognized it, let me repeat, sometimes in the survey of a rapidly growing vine in the contemplation of a moth, a butterfly, a chrysalis, a stream of running water."
8808,"""Sir,"" he replied, after a pause, ""Donner und Blitzen"" This was all that could be desired."
8809,What is there in our nature that is for ever urging us on towards pain and misery?
8810,"His wilder wanderings were very startling indeed, including frantic appeals that something in a boarded up farmhouse be destroyed, and fantastic references to some plan for the extirpation of the entire human race and all animal and vegetable life from the earth by some terrible elder race of beings from another dimension."
8811,"Although we were anxious to leave England before the depth of winter, yet we were detained."
8812,Our utmost united endeavors served only to disturb the coffer very slightly in its bed.
8813,Made frequent deposits in small sums.
8814,"The old man returned to the cottage, and the youth, with tools different from those he had used in the morning, directed his steps across the fields."
8815,I continued awe struck and mute he looked smilingly on the poor girl; the smile was his.
8816,"I felt the beneficial result of such excitement, in a renewal of those pleasing flights of fancy to which I had long been a stranger."
8817,"Darkness then came over me and troubled me, but hardly had I felt this when, by opening my eyes, as I now suppose, the light poured in upon me again."
8818,Their benevolent disposition often made them enter the cottages of the poor.
8819,"It was as the ass and the lap dog; yet surely the gentle ass whose intentions were affectionate, although his manners were rude, deserved better treatment than blows and execration."
8820,The rain had ceased; there was no more thunder and lightning; the wind had paused.
8821,They would perhaps be the worst of all Innsmouth types something one would not care to remember.
8822,"I will not deny, though my memory is uncertain and indistinct, that this witness of yours may have seen us together as he says, on the Gainesville pike, walking toward Big Cypress Swamp, at half past eleven on that awful night."
8823,"Those visions, however, were of abhorrent vividness and convincingness, and whenever he awaked he retained a vague sense of having undergone much more than he remembered."
8824,I myself would have thought of biological degeneration rather than alienage.
8825,It devolved on me to disclose our plan to Idris.
8826,"For what could be the meaning of the queer clay bas relief and the disjointed jottings, ramblings, and cuttings which I found?"
8827,"We have crossed the Atlantic fairly and easily crossed it in a balloon God be praised Who shall say that anything is impossible hereafter?"""
8828,"Come, come, the worst is past: no more grief, tears or despair; were not those the words you uttered?"
8829,"I must have left dust prints in that last old building, revealing how I had gained the street."
8830,Resentment added also a sting to my censure; and I reprobated Raymond's conduct in severe terms.
8831,"Yes, he had followed me in my travels; he had loitered in forests, hid himself in caves, or taken refuge in wide and desert heaths; and he now came to mark my progress and claim the fulfilment of my promise."
8832,"In the act of consigning the corpse to the water, he would unquestionably have noticed his oversight; but then no remedy would have been at hand."
8833,"I was awake, alive, while the brother of death possessed my race."
8834,Mr. Osborne complained of constriction of the chest but this soon wore off.
8835,"We were interrupted by an attendant, who announced, that the staff of Raymond was assembled in the council chamber."
8836,"He came up the while; and his appearance blew aside, with gentle western breath, my cloudy wrath: a tall, slim, fair boy, with a physiognomy expressive of the excess of sensibility and refinement stood before me; the morning sunbeams tinged with gold his silken hair, and spread light and glory over his beaming countenance."
8837,"Doubtless my words surprised Henry; he at first believed them to be the wanderings of my disturbed imagination, but the pertinacity with which I continually recurred to the same subject persuaded him that my disorder indeed owed its origin to some uncommon and terrible event."
8838,"""True"" observed the Baron, dryly, and at that instant a page of the bedchamber came from the palace with a heightened color, and a precipitate step."
8839,"You, Sir, are the first outsider to be told there is a secret, and split me if I'd have risked tampering that much with the powers had ye not been so hot after bygone things."""
8840,From this framework was suspended a wicker basket or car.
8841,"It is known, also, that it still remains in his possession."""
8842,I requested his advice concerning the books I ought to procure.
8843,"There was an open space around the church; partly a churchyard with spectral shafts, and partly a half paved square swept nearly bare of snow by the wind, and lined with unwholesomely archaic houses having peaked roofs and overhanging gables."
8844,"He if his ideas are worth mentioning at all had the effrontery to assert that his master never vaulted into the saddle without an unaccountable and almost imperceptible shudder, and that, upon his return from every long continued and habitual ride, an expression of triumphant malignity distorted every muscle in his countenance."
8845,"In other places human beings were seldom seen, and I generally subsisted on the wild animals that crossed my path."
8846,"My original soul seemed, at once, to take its flight from my body and a more than fiendish malevolence, gin nurtured, thrilled every fibre of my frame."
8847,"He knows where They have trod earth's fields, and where They still tread them, and why no one can behold Them as They tread."
8848,"In pronouncing these words, he drew a sharp knife across the guide rope by which I was suspended, and as we then happened to be precisely over my own house, which, during my peregrinations, had been handsomely rebuilt, it so occurred that I tumbled headlong down the ample chimney and alit upon the dining room hearth."
8849,"I greedily devoured the remnants of the shepherd's breakfast, which consisted of bread, cheese, milk, and wine; the latter, however, I did not like."
8850,"We will nominate Adrian, and do our best to bestow on him the power to which he is entitled by his birth, and which he merits through his virtues."
8851,Deeper grief oppressed Perdita.
8852,"For who, let me ask, ever heard of a balloon manufactured entirely of dirty newspapers?"
8853,Sir Isaac Newton is said to have avowed that he felt like a child picking up shells beside the great and unexplored ocean of truth.
8854,In her left hand she has a little heavy Dutch watch; in her right she wields a ladle for the sauerkraut and pork.
8855,"And throwing aside a drapery, he discovered a full length portrait of the Marchesa Aphrodite."
8856,"In open ambition or close intrigue, his end was the same to attain the first station in his own country."
8857,This daemoniac laughter which I hear as I write comes only from my own weakening brain.
8858,"I know I'm more nervous than I was when you saw me last year, but you don't need to hold a clinic over it."
8859,"Had I been either of these periodicals I would have spared no pains to have the ""Goosetherumfoodle"" prosecuted."
8860,She never for a moment credited the story of his death; she resolved instantly to go to Greece.
8861,"I glanced back at the sea, but there was nothing there."
8862,"The balloon was exhausted and secured without trouble; and when the MS. from which this narrative is compiled was despatched from Charleston, the party were still at Fort Moultrie."
8863,"I was not particularly attentive to what you did; but observation has become with me, of late, a species of necessity."
8864,"Did you observe any thing peculiar about it?"""
8865,"""Has no copy been taken?"" he demanded, surveying it through a microscope."
8866,"I never so knew it, nor did you."
8867,You know what he wants.
8868,"Almost the first long passage that Armitage deciphered, an entry dated November , , proved highly startling and disquieting."
8869,"Raymond had lost much of his popularity, and was deserted by his peculiar partizans."
8870,"So famous were Kalos and Musides, that none wondered when the Tyrant of Syracuse sent to them deputies to speak of the costly statue of Tyché which he had planned for his city."
8871,"But I was not the witness of his grief, for I was lifeless and did not recover my senses for a long, long time."
8872,"On a chair lay a razor, besmeared with blood."
8873,"""Pay for my brandy and water didn't I give you the tobacco for the brandy and water?"
8874,He did not conceive that ever qu.
8875,Methought this was but a poor expedient; but I assured him of my obedience and zeal.
8876,"These symptoms were more than I had expected, and occasioned me some alarm."
8877,It could not have belonged to either of the deceased.
8878,"""My cousin,"" replied I, ""it is decided as you may have expected; all judges had rather that ten innocent should suffer than that one guilty should escape."
8879,"He had a feeling that however they might express ridicule of his intended marriage they would not dare display it when it had taken place; therefore seeking the consent of his guardian which with some difficulty he obtained, and of the father of his mistress which was more easily given, without acquainting any one else of his intention, by the time he had attained his twentieth birthday he had become the husband of Diana."
8880,"Alas for that accursed time They bore thee o'er the billow, From Love to titled age and crime, And an unholy pillow From me, and from our misty clime, Where weeps the silver willow That these lines were written in English a language with which I had not believed their author acquainted afforded me little matter for surprise."
8881,"Once a student of reanimation, this silent trunk was now gruesomely called upon to exemplify it."
8882,"West had a private laboratory in an east room of the barn like temporary edifice, assigned him on his plea that he was devising new and radical methods for the treatment of hitherto hopeless cases of maiming."
8883,Thus far I had succumbed supinely to this imperious domination.
8884,Where if anywhere had he been on those nights of daemoniac alienage?
8885,"A parasol, gloves, and a pocket handkerchief, were also here found."
8886,"You are well aware that chemical preparations exist, and have existed time out of mind, by means of which it is possible to write upon either paper or vellum, so that the characters shall become visible only when subjected to the action of fire."
8887,"The sea, or rather the vast river of ice, wound among its dependent mountains, whose aerial summits hung over its recesses."
8888,"There was a brief silence, and in that pause the scattered senses of poor Curtis Whateley began to knit back into a sort of continuity; so that he put his hands to his head with a moan."
8889,We are in full view of the low coast of South Carolina.
8890,Motion in the animal frame had fully ceased.
8891,"Now, suppose that I sail from this position a thousand miles east."
8892,"Meantime huge smoking cities arose, innumerable."
8893,Is she not hurrying to upbraid me for my haste?
8894,"I went to the war, an' ef I'd a had any guts or sense I'd a never come back, but settled away from here."
8895,"Many were ill, but none made a disturbance."
8896,"But, indeed, the time had now arrived when the mystery of my wife's manner oppressed me as a spell."
8897,"""Glad ta see ye, young Sir new faces is scurce arount here, an' I hain't got much ta cheer me up these days."
8898,"""He is come, the little love"" and, seizing me firmly by both hands, she kissed me thrice upon the nose."
8899,"These regular interruptions to my slumber caused me even less discomfort than I had anticipated; and when I finally arose for the day, it was seven o'clock, and the sun had attained many degrees above the line of my horizon."
8900,"Corroborated the testimony, and the opinions of M. Dumas."
8901,"He is an Englishman, and in the midst of national and professional prejudices, unsoftened by cultivation, retains some of the noblest endowments of humanity."
8902,No secret issues could have escaped their vigilance.
8903,"His mouth was large and flexible, and his teeth were more wildly uneven, although sound, than I had ever before seen teeth in a human head."
8904,"The poor victim, who on the morrow was to pass the awful boundary between life and death, felt not, as I did, such deep and bitter agony."
8905,"The subject, a widely known architect with leanings toward theosophy and occultism, went violently insane on the date of young Wilcox's seizure, and expired several months later after incessant screamings to be saved from some escaped denizen of hell."
8906,The surcingle enveloped my limbs and body close in all directions save in the path of the destroying crescent.
8907,"By the by,"" she continued, ""have you any recollection "" and here I fancied that a blush, even through the gloom of the apartment, became distinctly visible upon her cheek ""have you any recollection, mon cher ami of this little ocular assistant, which now depends from my neck?"""
8908,"I arose with a shining pate, wigless; she in disdain and wrath, half buried in alien hair."
8909,"Men whose eyes were wild with fear shrieked aloud of the sight within the king's banquet hall, where through the windows were seen no longer the forms of Nargis Hei and his nobles and slaves, but a horde of indescribable green voiceless things with bulging eyes, pouting, flabby lips, and curious ears; things which danced horribly, bearing in their paws golden platters set with rubies and diamonds containing uncouth flames."
8910,"Madame Moritz, her mother, was a widow with four children, of whom Justine was the third."
8911,"Her hair, not as yet more than half loosened for the night from its ball room array, clustered, amid a shower of diamonds, round and round her classical head, in curls like those of the young hyacinth."
8912,"At first worshipped with dark rites by the prairie dogs, who saw in it a deity sent from the upper world, it afterward fell into dire neglect as the race of simple, artless burrowers succumbed before the onslaught of the conquering Aryan."
8913,Is it not really difficult to comprehend upon what principle of interest our forefathers acted?
8914,"The shutter rattled more loudly, unfastened, and commenced slamming against the window."
8915,"I have observed that, although the outlines of the figures upon the walls were sufficiently distinct, yet the colors seemed blurred and indefinite."
8916,"There were women weeping around; I hung over it and joined my sad tears to theirs; all this time no distinct idea presented itself to my mind, but my thoughts rambled to various subjects, reflecting confusedly on my misfortunes and their cause."
8917,"You are feverish and"" ""Feel my pulse,"" said he."
8918,"His Face, too full to be handsom, was likewise marred by the Effects of some scrofulous Disorder; and his Head was continually rolling about in a sort of convulsive way."
8919,"The paintings the paintings O luxury O love who, gazing on those forbidden beauties, shall have eyes for the dainty devices of the golden frames that besprinkled, like stars, the hyacinth and the porphyry walls?"
8920,"As we drew nearer the green shore the bearded man told me of that land, the Land of Zar, where dwell all the dreams and thoughts of beauty that come to men once and then are forgotten."
8921,"In a few cases closely related families would band together and watch in the gloom under one roof; but in general there was only a repetition of the barricading of the night before, and a futile, ineffective gesture of loading muskets and setting pitchforks handily about."
8922,"It had done a deed, but the squatters had fired the cabin in frenzy before it could escape."
8923,"Thus untaught in refined philosophy, and pursued by a restless feeling of degradation from my true station in society, I wandered among the hills of civilized England as uncouth a savage as the wolf bred founder of old Rome."
8924,"On August , we espied the ocean floor, and sent a powerful beam from the searchlight over it."
8925,"His frame shook, in a ridiculous manner, with a fit of what Tarpaulin called ""the horrors."""
8926,But they became every day more ardent and tender.
8927,"It seemed evident that mine was not, at least, the most hideous of fates."
8928,"There may be an object in full keeping with the principle suggested an object unattainable by the means ordinarily in possession of mankind, yet which, if attained, would lend a charm to the landscape garden immeasurably surpassing that which a merely human interest could bestow."
8929,"My eyes, from the cruel pressure of the machine, were absolutely starting from their sockets."
8930,"Every ignoramus of a fellow who finds that he hasn't brains in sufficient quantity to make his way as a walking advertiser, or an eye sore prig, or a salt and batter man, thinks, of course, that he'll answer very well as a dabbler of mud."
8931,"I gazed with unquiet eye upon the sarcophagi in the angles of the room, upon the varying figures of the drapery, and upon the writhing of the parti colored fires in the censer overhead."
8932,"The larger links of the chain run thus Chantilly, Orion, Dr. Nichols, Epicurus, Stereotomy, the street stones, the fruiterer."""
8933,"I did not pretend to disguise from my perception the identity of the singular individual who thus perseveringly interfered with my affairs, and harassed me with his insinuated counsel."
8934,"Probably the clerk would make the price easy for me, but there was nothing else to do."
8935,"Then, as more men came to the growing cluster of houses and looked about for places to dwell, they built cabins along the north side; cabins of stout oaken logs with masonry on the side toward the forest, for many Indians lurked there with fire arrows."
8936,"When eleven struck, however, the old man stood up, glided to a massive carved chest in a corner, and got two hooded cloaks; one of which he donned, and the other of which he draped round the old woman, who was ceasing her monotonous spinning."
8937,"The note implored me in the name of mercy, and for the sake of my own curiosity, to wait where I was while he prepared a full account in German of all the marvels and terrors which beset him."
8938,My condition was now one of indescribable chaos.
8939,"Suddenly one of the choristers died he was lifted from his desk, the vaults below were hastily opened he was consigned with a few muttered prayers to the darksome cavern, abode of thousands who had gone before now wide yawning to receive even all who fulfilled the funeral rites."
8940,"Our cabinet warehouses are left entirely unattended, and thus afford every facility for a trick of this kind."
8941,It was annoying that the electricity should not last out the air and provisions.
8942,In my case it was method not money which made the man: at least all of him that was not made by the tailor whom I served.
8943,"""It would be too much . . ."
8944,"We were, in a measure, prepared for it, however, as the weather had been holding out threats for some time."
8945,"""Und dvelf it is"" said all the little old gentlemen, putting up their watches."
8946,"It increased my fury, as the beating of a drum stimulates the soldier into courage."
8947,"Satan had his companions, fellow devils, to admire and encourage him, but I am solitary and abhorred.'"
8948,"We all observed the visitation of these feelings, and none regretted them so much as Perdita."
8949,"You needn't think I'm crazy, Eliot plenty of others have queerer prejudices than this."
8950,Strange and awesome were many of the objects I encountered.
8951,He patronized the bagpipes.
8952,"The rope dancers, for example, are inimitable."
8953,"Every day, in the interim, I had inquired for Talbot at his hotel, and every day had been thrown into a spasm of wrath by the everlasting ""Not come home yet"" of his footman."
8954,"Then they gave Kuranes a horse and placed him at the head of the cavalcade, and all rode majestically through the downs of Surrey and onward toward the region where Kuranes and his ancestors were born."
8955,He betrays eagerly and early that he may not himself be betrayed.
8956,"I'd rudder not go fer trubble dat bug you mus git him for your own self."""
8957,For this reason I avoided this high born damsel.
8958,And then the series of accidents and coincidences these were so very extraordinary.
8959,"Great honours were then paid to the shades of those who had annihilated the odd ancient beings, and the memory of those beings and of their elder gods was derided by dancers and lutanists crowned with roses from the gardens of Zokkar."
8960,"It was not till one of them died that he perceived their danger; one by one they were carried off by pestilence; and his wife, his helpmate and supporter, more necessary to him than his own limbs and frame, which had hardly been taught the lesson of self preservation, the kind companion whose voice always spoke peace to him, closed her eyes in death."
8961,"Embracing the huge cylinder, as closely as possible, with his arms and knees, seizing with his hands some projections, and resting his naked toes upon others, Jupiter, after one or two narrow escapes from falling, at length wriggled himself into the first great fork, and seemed to consider the whole business as virtually accomplished."
8962,"The days that followed were full of pain to me; so that I sometimes regretted that I had not yielded at once to the haughty lady, who watched all my motions, and turned my beloved task of nursing my friend to a work of pain and irritation."
8963,"His head was uncovered, and his hair neatly done up in papillotes."
8964,"I know G , the Prefect of Police, and shall have no difficulty in obtaining the necessary permission."""
8965,"Good God Margaret, if you had seen the man who thus capitulated for his safety, your surprise would have been boundless."
8966,The Journal here ceases.
8967,"We pored together over such works as the Ververt et Chartreuse of Gresset; the Belphegor of Machiavelli; the Heaven and Hell of Swedenborg; the Subterranean Voyage of Nicholas Klimm by Holberg; the Chiromancy of Robert Flud, of Jean D'Indaginé, and of De la Chambre; the Journey into the Blue Distance of Tieck; and the City of the Sun of Campanella."
8968,"Foremost of all are the great columns and frieze, both decorated with sculptures of inexpressible beauty; obviously portraying idealised pastoral scenes and processions of priests and priestesses bearing strange ceremonial devices in adoration of a radiant god."
8969,"If any being felt emotions of benevolence towards me, I should return them a hundred and a hundredfold; for that one creature's sake I would make peace with the whole kind But I now indulge in dreams of bliss that cannot be realized."
8970,"Strange and harrowing must be his story, frightful the storm which embraced the gallant vessel on its course and wrecked it thus Chapter I am by birth a Genevese, and my family is one of the most distinguished of that republic."
8971,The texture of the majority was a kind of unpleasant rubberiness.
8972,"I was presently relieved, however, by the dropping out of the other eye."
8973,"""Ha ha ha he he he hi hi hi ho ho ho hu hu hu that's good oh that's capital such a wit But all we want just now, you know, uncle, is that you would indicate the time precisely."""
8974,"And though the century which has since elapsed, and whose conclusion brings us thus together once more, tortured our slumbering senses with no impatience of duration, yet, my Monos, it was a century still."
8975,"Rich draperies in every part of the room trembled to the vibration of low, melancholy music, whose origin was not to be discovered."
8976,"But ah ah the first contribution the first, I say, it is never the Magazine custom to pay for you comprehend, eh?"
8977,"I felt that I had witnessed the death of a whole village, and knew I was alone in the castle with Denys Barry, whose boldness had brought down a doom."
8978,"But I disliked it when I fancied I heard the closing of one of the windows that the settle faced, as if it had been stealthily opened."
8979,"And shadowed on a screen, I saw hooded forms amidst ruins, and yellow evil faces peering from behind fallen monuments."
8980,"When, a short time previous to the commencement of the game, the Automaton is wound up by the exhibiter as usual, an ear in any degree accustomed to the sounds produced in winding up a system of machinery, will not fail to discover, instantaneously, that the axis turned by the key in the box of the Chess Player, cannot possibly be connected with either a weight, a spring, or any system of machinery whatever."
8981,"I was accordingly conducted, by the magistrate and several other persons, to the inn."
8982,"dreadful creatures, those Indians do turn out your toes I really am ashamed of you man of great courage, poor fellow but this is a wonderful age for invention O dear me, I'm out of breath quite a desperado prodigies of valor never heard can't believe it I shall have to sit down and enlighten you Smith why, he's the man"" ""Man Fred, I tell you"" here bawled out Miss Bas Bleu, as I led Mrs. Pirouette to a seat."
8983,"Zath, the coroner, disputed at length with Nith, the lean notary; and Kranon and Shang and Thul were overwhelmed with questions."
8984,"The delight of Clerval was proportionably greater than mine; his mind expanded in the company of men of talent, and he found in his own nature greater capacities and resources than he could have imagined himself to have possessed while he associated with his inferiors."
8985,"May heaven forgive the folly and morbidity which led us both to so monstrous a fate Wearied with the commonplaces of a prosaic world, where even the joys of romance and adventure soon grow stale, St. John and I had followed enthusiastically every aesthetic and intellectual movement which promised respite from our devastating ennui."
8986,"At first I wished to hurry on, for I longed to console and sympathise with my loved and sorrowing friends; but when I drew near my native town, I slackened my progress."
8987,"It was during one of these reveries or pauses of apparent abstraction, that, in turning over a page of the poet and scholar Politian's beautiful tragedy ""The Orfeo,"" the first native Italian tragedy, which lay near me upon an ottoman, I discovered a passage underlined in pencil."
8988,"""Did we form ourselves, choosing our dispositions, and our powers?"
8989,"Presently Wilbur raised his head and began speaking in that strange, resonant fashion which hinted at sound producing organs unlike the run of mankind's."
8990,The original beauty is never so great as that which may be introduced.
8991,"It was the publicity attending this investigation which set reporters on the track of the Whateleys, and caused the Boston Globe and Arkham Advertiser to print flamboyant Sunday stories of young Wilbur's precociousness, Old Whateley's black magic, the shelves of strange books, the sealed second story of the ancient farmhouse, and the weirdness of the whole region and its hill noises."
8992,"Of its nature, and manner of coming into my possession, I cannot speak."
8993,"""And you have not seen it?"" he said abruptly, after having stared about him for some moments in silence ""you have not then seen it?"
8994,"At first he stared at me as if he found it impossible to comprehend the witticism of my remark; but as its point seemed slowly to make its way into his brain, his eyes, in the same proportion, seemed protruding from their sockets."
8995,"These are important questions utterly untouched by the evidence; and there are others of equal moment, which have met with no attention."
8996,CHARMION So henceforward will you always be called.
8997,This condition of things could not have long existed.
8998,"By way of amusement, I felt my way among the numerous coffins ranged in order around."
8999,"He had told her no more than he had told the public, but had left a long manuscript of ""technical matters"" as he said written in English, evidently in order to safeguard her from the peril of casual perusal."
9000,"It also bore the inscription, ""From Eric Moreland Clapham Lee, St. Eloi, Flanders""."
9001,"The results attained by them are not unfrequently surprising, but, for the most part, are brought about by simple diligence and activity."
9002,"Clara, overcome by weariness, had seated herself at the foot of her cousin's bed, and in spite of her efforts slumber weighed down her lids; twice or thrice she shook it off; but at length she was conquered and slept."
9003,"It is Mr. Thingum Bob said so, and Mr. Thingum Bob wrote this, and Mr. Thingum Bob did that."
9004,"In passing my hand through the valve, with a cup of water for the old puss, the sleeves of my shirt became entangled in the loop which sustained the basket, and thus, in a moment, loosened it from the bottom."
9005,And as I did so I shuddered.
9006,"Diana was not more than five inches in height, but her head was somewhat bigger than her body, and her tail being cut off exceedingly close, gave an air of injured innocence to the interesting animal which rendered her a favorite with all."
9007,"Her servant, however, remained with her."
9008,"At its third repetition, his whole frame was agitated by a very slight shivering; the eyelids unclosed themselves so far as to display a white line of the ball; the lips moved sluggishly, and from between them, in a barely audible whisper, issued the words: ""Yes; asleep now."
9009,"Of a possible natives who had inhabited this spot, not one living specimen was visible."
9010,The horrible scene of the preceding day was forever acting before my eyes; the females were flying and the enraged Felix tearing me from his father's feet.
9011,"The old librarian rehearsed the formulae he had memorised, and clutched the paper containing the alternative one he had not memorised."
9012,"He had her then removed to a more commodious dwelling, and hovered about her, again and again to assure himself that she was safe."
9013,"He stretched forth to me his hand, and unfortunately in so doing was forced to abandon his firm hold upon the overcoat."
9014,"As an amateur antiquarian I almost lost my olfactory disgust and my feeling of menace and repulsion amidst this rich, unaltered survival from the past."
9015,"All hees own housework he do hees leetle room are full of bottles and machines, and he do not work as doctair."
9016,I now forget the cause of her departure if indeed I ever knew it.
9017,"I clasped that kind hand; I tried to answer; a fervent ""God bless you"" was all my ignorance could frame of speech, and I darted away, oppressed by my new emotions."
9018,But what mainly disturbed me was the idea that had perceptibly descended.
9019,"In the fifth or sixth he succeeded very partially, and after long continued effort."
9020,"The acquisition of unknown languages was too tedious an occupation, for one who referred every expression to the universe within, and read not, as many do, for the mere sake of filling up time; but who was still questioning herself and her author, moulding every idea in a thousand ways, ardently desirous for the discovery of truth in every sentence."
9021,"Much of my time was now occupied in the exploration of the ruined and abandoned halls and towers of the old chateau, which in youth fear had caused me to shun, and some of which, old Pierre had once told me, had not been trodden by human foot for over four centuries."
9022,"I dare quote only one paragraph, put into such English as I can make from the awkward Low Latin."
9023,"But it soon occurred to me that the atmosphere was now far too rare to sustain even the feathers; that they actually fell, as they appeared to do, with great rapidity; and that I had been surprised by the united velocities of their descent and my own elevation."
9024,Pompey alone remained behind.
9025,I did not open my eyes until the raucous clamour came loudly from a point obviously straight ahead.
9026,"And he perceived that there was no door on this landward end, but only a couple of small lattice windows with dingy bull's eye panes leaded in seventeenth century fashion."
9027,"His passions were violent; as these often obtained the mastery over him, he could not always square his conduct to the obvious line of self interest, but self gratification at least was the paramount object with him."
9028,"to promenade, as usual and customer brought home... JULY ."
9029,"I wished to imitate his example, but men are used to move all together, if they move at all, and I could find no means of leading the inhabitants of scattered towns and villages, who forgot my words as soon as they heard them not, and veered with every baffling wind, that might arise from an apparent change of circumstance."
9030,"Examining one day the reserve specimens roughly set on the storage shelves in a rear room of the museum, my eye was caught by an odd picture in one of the old papers spread beneath the stones."
9031,"It is a fair day for the sons of earth and life ah, more fair for the daughters of heaven and death"" I kissed her forehead, and she continued: ""I am dying, yet shall I live."""
9032,"Felix darted forward, and with supernatural force tore me from his father, to whose knees I clung, in a transport of fury, he dashed me to the ground and struck me violently with a stick."
9033,"Oh My creator, make me happy; let me feel gratitude towards you for one benefit Let me see that I excite the sympathy of some existing thing; do not deny me my request"" I was moved."
9034,"All the servants were asleep in the attic, so I answered the bell."
9035,"The ponderous oppression was in a great measure relieved; and, issuing from the flame of each lamp, for there were many, there flowed unbrokenly into my ears a strain of melodious monotone."
9036,"""Fear not that I shall be the instrument of future mischief."
9037,"I truly think that no person at the university, with the exception of myself, ever suspected him to be capable of a joke, verbal or practical: the old bull dog at the garden gate would sooner have been accused, the ghost of Heraclitus, or the wig of the Emeritus Professor of Theology."
9038,"There was much kindness, gratitude, and sweetness in her expression, but no love."
9039,"And I closed my eyes before the crash that I knew would come, shutting out the sight of the celestial bird which flapped its mocking blue wings over the brink of the torrent."
9040,"As he spoke, I caught a glimpse of his face in the yellow beam from a solitary attic window."
9041,"By the utmost self violence I curbed the imperious voice of wretchedness, which sometimes desired to declare itself to the whole world, and my manners were calmer and more composed than they had ever been since my journey to the sea of ice."
9042,"So after that I did not listen for merriment or look for wayfarers, but kept on down past the hushed lighted farmhouses and shadowy stone walls to where the signs of ancient shops and sea taverns creaked in the salt breeze, and the grotesque knockers of pillared doorways glistened along deserted, unpaved lanes in the light of little, curtained windows."
9043,"Most of this information reached the outside world through young Jan Martense, who from some kind of restlessness joined the colonial army when news of the Albany Convention reached Tempest Mountain."
9044,"From the remotest period of antiquity to which the archives have reference, the hours have been regularly struck by the big bell."
9045,Chapter The being finished speaking and fixed his looks upon me in the expectation of a reply.
9046,It is the person of Ligeia.
9047,"My manly virtues did not desert me, for the witch Urania spared the locks of Sampson, while he reposed at her feet; but all was softened and humanized."
9048,"I spoke with awe, and I think he shared it for a second, but the evil grin returned."
9049,Evadne entered but coldly into his systems.
9050,He asked me the history of my earlier years.
9051,"Above these apparent hieroglyphics was a figure of evidently pictorial intent, though its impressionistic execution forbade a very clear idea of its nature."
9052,"""Alas Alas What am I become?"
9053,"While he was yet undecided, she had quitted England; the news of his marriage reached her, and her hopes, poorly nurtured blossoms, withered and fell."
9054,"The mere flow of animal spirits was Paradise, and at night's close I only desired a renewal of the intoxicating delusion."
9055,"But half buried in the rushes was spied a curious green idol of stone; an exceedingly ancient idol coated with seaweed and chiselled in the likeness of Bokrug, the great water lizard."
9056,But when I gently shook his shoulder he turned on me with astonishing alertness and snapped out some more obscure phrases.
9057,"You are rich, respected, admired, beloved; you are happy, as once I was."
9058,"In the midst of poverty and want, Felix carried with pleasure to his sister the first little white flower that peeped out from beneath the snowy ground."
9059,"We discussed his chances, the merits of the other candidates, and the dispositions of the voters."
9060,"A rumbling sound seemed brewing beneath the hills, mixed strangely with a concordant rumbling which clearly came from the sky."
9061,"The stinging ""remorse of love"" now pierced her heart."
9062,"Other and later Members of the CLUB were Mr. David Garrick, the Actor and early Friend of Dr. Johnson, Messieurs Tho. and Jos."
9063,"That a mind can find its greatest pleasure in escapes from the daily treadmill, and in original and dramatic recombinations of images usually thrown by habit and fatigue into the hackneyed patterns of actual existence, was something virtually incredible to his clear, practical, and logical intellect."
9064,Report had spoken of his possessions in terms which I had even ventured to call terms of ridiculous exaggeration.
9065,"In the brief existence of Ellison I fancy that I have seen refuted the dogma, that in man's very nature lies some hidden principle, the antagonist of bliss."
9066,"The invalid was suffering with acute pain in the region of the heart, and breathed with great difficulty, having all the ordinary symptoms of asthma."
9067,"The day was warm and sunny, but the landscape of sand, sedge grass, and stunted shrubbery became more and more desolate as we proceeded."
9068,"When she found herself forsaken by him, she lost the heart to pursue her usual avocations; pride forbade every application to him; famine was welcomed as the kind porter to the gates of death, within whose opening folds she should now, without sin, quickly repose."
9069,Our house was the house of mourning.
9070,"I will have none of their rabbit au chat and, for the matter of that, none of their cat au rabbit either."
9071,"I repeat it is exceedingly hard to comprehend how the articles could have remained in this thicket undiscovered, for a longer period than one or two days; and that thus there is good ground for suspicion, in spite of the dogmatic ignorance of Le Soleil, that they were, at a comparatively late date, deposited where found."
9072,Ye Gods that sigh It sunk into my heart.
9073,"Whilst Musides revelled by night amidst the urban gaieties of Tegea, Kalos would remain at home; stealing away from the sight of his slaves into the cool recesses of the olive grove."
9074,"In this matter, I act as a partisan of the lady concerned."
9075,One of these small apartments was occupied by Wilson.
9076,"No one placed the charred fragments in an urn or set a memorial to him who had been; for certain papers and a certain boxed object were found, which made men wish to forget."
9077,"About the period of this work's completion people noticed that the old tool house, tightly locked and windowlessly clapboarded since Wilbur's birth, had been abandoned again."
9078,I then finally made up my mind.
9079,They alone would have amply established her identity.
9080,"Over and above the fumes and sickening closeness rises an aroma once familiar throughout the land, but now happily banished to the back streets of life by the edict of a benevolent government the aroma of strong, wicked whiskey a precious kind of forbidden fruit indeed in this year of grace ."
9081,Raymond questioned him; but his reserved answers soon made him turn from the man to the drawing.
9082,"She went even so far as to accuse me, laughingly, of rashness of imprudence."
9083,The gas to be formed from these latter materials is a gas never yet generated by any other person than myself or at least never applied to any similar purpose.
9084,"We must all remain; and do our best to help our suffering fellow creatures."""
9085,"Just before sunset I scrambled my way through the evergreens to the hut of my friend, whom I had not visited for several weeks my residence being, at that time, in Charleston, a distance of nine miles from the Island, while the facilities of passage and re passage were very far behind those of the present day."
9086,"As for ""Oppodeldoc,"" whoever he was, I had by this time lost all patience with the fellow, and sympathized with him no longer."
9087,"Undoubtedly the alien strain in the Innsmouth folk was stronger here than farther inland unless, indeed, the ""Innsmouth look"" were a disease rather than a blood strain, in which case this district might be held to harbour the more advanced cases."
9088,"In broad daylight, and at most seasons I am apt to think the greater part of it a mere dream; but sometimes in the autumn, about two in the morning when winds and animals howl dismally, there comes from inconceivable depths below a damnable suggestion of rhythmical throbbing . . ."
9089,Leave the task of persuasion on that point to me; I do not ask you to assist me there.
9090,"Postponing, therefore, for the present, my suicidal design, I just slipped my nether extremities into the sleeves of my coat, and betook myself to a pursuit of the felon with all the nimbleness which the case required and its circumstances would admit."
9091,"Looking down from this pinnacle upon the howling Phlegethon below, I could not help smiling at the simplicity with which the honest Jonas Ramus records, as a matter difficult of belief, the anecdotes of the whales and the bears; for it appeared to me, in fact, a self evident thing, that the largest ship of the line in existence, coming within the influence of that deadly attraction, could resist it as little as a feather the hurricane, and must disappear bodily and at once."
9092,"There were legends of a hidden lake unglimpsed by mortal sight, in which dwelt a huge, formless white polypous thing with luminous eyes; and squatters whispered that bat winged devils flew up out of caverns in inner earth to worship it at midnight."
9093,"And how, Victor, can I relate our misfortune?"
9094,"He heard with attention the little narration concerning my studies and smiled at the names of Cornelius Agrippa and Paracelsus, but without the contempt that M. Krempe had exhibited."
9095,"It had been rather presumptuous of him to open the unlocked door after knocking had failed to rouse a response, but he had needed the help very badly and thought that his host would not mind a gentle prodding awake."
9096,"Handbills and papers fluttered about filthy gutters; handbills and papers printed in many tongues and in many characters, yet all bearing messages of crime and rebellion."
9097,"""To be sure I am, sir."" ""I shall be sorry to part with him,"" said Dupin."
9098,He was pacing the garden: his passions were in a state of inconceivable turbulence.
9099,"The sea appeared unruffled as a mirror, although, by means of the spy glass, I could perceive it to be in a state of violent agitation."
9100,They are each two feet in height.
9101,"Into this the grimacing crone started, dragging Gilman after her by his pajama sleeve."
9102,"Long long I read and devoutly, devotedly I gazed."
9103,"He got over his grief for Elinor, and the country became dull to him, so he was glad to find even me for amusement; and when he does not know what else to do he passes his lazy hours here, and calls this friendship It is true that his presence is a consolation to me, and that his words are sweet, and, when he will he can pour forth thoughts that win me from despair."
9104,"He was courteous, honey tongued an adept in fascinating arts."
9105,"Yet I will not die; alas how dare I go where I may meet Diana, when I have disobeyed her last request; her last words said in a faint voice when all feeling but love, which survives all things else was already dead, she then bade me make her child happy: that thought alone gives a double sting to death."
9106,"'Who are you?' ""At that instant the cottage door was opened, and Felix, Safie, and Agatha entered."
9107,At these moments I took refuge in the most perfect solitude.
9108,"The odour of the fish was maddening; but I was too much concerned with graver things to mind so slight an evil, and set out boldly for an unknown goal."
9109,"""That he should live to be an instrument of mischief disturbs me; in other respects, this hour, when I momentarily expect my release, is the only happy one which I have enjoyed for several years."
9110,"On the route, quite accidentally, he is met by the purchaser, who exclaims: ""Ah This is my bundle, I see I thought you had been home with it, long ago."
9111,"He writhed beneath an injury he was unable to revenge; and he quitted England with a vow not to return, till the good time should arrive, when she might feel the power of him she now despised."
9112,The Countess of Windsor was by nature full of energetic feeling; but she had very seldom in her life permitted the concentrated emotions of her heart to shew themselves on her features.
9113,"Puerile though the story was, old Zadok's insane earnestness and horror had communicated to me a mounting unrest which joined with my earlier sense of loathing for the town and its blight of intangible shadow."
9114,"Desire of renown, and presumptuous ambition, had characterized his youth."
9115,"formless phantasms and kaleidoscopic mutations of a ghoulish, remembered scene; forests of monstrous overnourished oaks with serpent roots twisting and sucking unnamable juices from an earth verminous with millions of cannibal devils; mound like tentacles groping from underground nuclei of polypous perversion . . ."
9116,He looks to Number One.
9117,"In an instant he had reached the extremity of the niche, and finding his progress arrested by the rock, stood stupidly bewildered."
9118,"They seemed full of careful thought, and a few words of their conversation that reached me, induced me to approach and make further enquiries."
9119,"They were, I must believe, far larger than the ordinary eyes of our own race."
9120,"An advanced guard gave information of our approach, and the country people were quickly in motion to do honour to Lord Raymond."
9121,I have already spoken of his abstract manner at such times.
9122,All Athens accompanied us for several miles.
9123,I can speak for myself want of energy was not my failing.
9124,"But a Frenchwoman is seldom direct, and has always, by way of answer to an embarrassing query, some little practical reply of her own."
9125,The boundary line of his dominions was never clearly defined; but his principal park embraced a circuit of fifty miles.
9126,"Maddened by the sound, or by the stench which billowed forth even to the open air, the waiting horse gave a scream that was too frantic for a neigh, and plunged madly off through the night, the wagon rattling crazily behind it."
9127,"We landed, in fine, more dead than alive, after four days of intense distress, upon the beach opposite Roanoke Island."
9128,"With the energy natural to her, Perdita then endeavoured to supply his place."
9129,"Moreover, it is inserted in at least five or six of the daily papers of the day, while in point of time, it makes its appearance only a few hours after the original."
9130,Truth is not always in a well.
9131,"The busy eastern part of the town was silent, or at most you saw only where, half from cupidity, half from curiosity, the warehouses had been more ransacked than pillaged: bales of rich India goods, shawls of price, jewels, and spices, unpacked, strewed the floors."
9132,"For arms there dangled from the upper portion of the carcass two tolerably long bottles, with the necks outward for hands."
9133,"For myself I was proud, knowing how the Fatherland would revere my memory and how my sons would be taught to be men like me."
9134,"Where once had risen walls of cubits and towers yet higher, now stretched only the marshy shore, and where once had dwelt fifty millions of men now crawled only the detestable green water lizard."
9135,"I attended the lectures and cultivated the acquaintance of the men of science of the university, and I found even in M. Krempe a great deal of sound sense and real information, combined, it is true, with a repulsive physiognomy and manners, but not on that account the less valuable."
9136,"We were alone together; the sun had set; the song of the nightingales began; the evening star shone distinct in the flood of light, which was yet unfaded in the west."
9137,Yet I could not have been deceived.
9138,"Upon my memory was graven the vision of the city, and within my soul had arisen another and vaguer recollection, of whose nature I was not then certain."
9139,"""Ave, Caesar, moriturus te saluto"" he shouted, and dropped to the whiskey reeking floor, never to rise again."
9140,When Gilman stood up the tiles felt hot to his bare feet.
9141,But do they not rather demonstrate the absence of a gang?
9142,"If I went to sleep as I proposed, how could the atmosphere in the chamber be regenerated in the interim?"
9143,"He wants to see life as she is wants to know what the real lightnin' juice tastes like so jus' remember he's me friend an' treat 'im right."""
9144,"After the fading of the last match I dared to waste, I sat very quietly without a light."
9145,"The tent of the Arab is fallen in the sands, and his horse spurns the ground unbridled and unsaddled."
9146,"Once, overcome by fatigue, I sunk on the wet earth; about two hundred yards distant, alone in a large meadow stood a magnificent oak; the lightnings shewed its myriad boughs torn by the storm."
9147,"Then he saw the fanged, bearded little face in the rat hole the accursed little face which he at last realised bore such a shocking, mocking resemblance to old Keziah's and heard the faint fumbling at the door."
9148,"Many were the pillars of the palaces, all of tinted marble, and carven into designs of surpassing beauty."
9149,"Moreover, although it was stated by L'Etoile, that the corpse was re interred at the public expense that an advantageous offer of private sculpture was absolutely declined by the family and that no member of the family attended the ceremonial: although, I say, all this was asserted by L'Etoile in furtherance of the impression it designed to convey yet all this was satisfactorily disproved."
9150,"""This was my duty, but there was another still paramount to that."
9151,Sometimes I have endeavoured to discover what quality it is which he possesses that elevates him so immeasurably above any other person I ever knew.
9152,"I cannot number the birds that I have saved during the long and severe winters of that climate; or the hares and rabbits that I have defended from the attacks of our dogs, or have nursed when accidentally wounded."
9153,"He assisted her to dismount, and dismissing her guide, conducted her into the cottage."
9154,"""Claws enuff, massa, and mouth too."
9155,"And those who came were never as those who went away; for their accents were coarse and strident, and their mien and faces unpleasing."
9156,"The sledge was still visible, nor did I again lose sight of it except at the moments when for a short time some ice rock concealed it with its intervening crags."
9157,"He interspersed his study of the books with attacks on the manuscript itself, and in time became convinced that he had to deal with one of those subtlest and most ingenious of cryptograms, in which many separate lists of corresponding letters are arranged like the multiplication table, and the message built up with arbitrary key words known only to the initiated."
9158,"In the first place he opens the door No. I. Leaving this open, he goes round to the rear of the box, and opens a door precisely at the back of door No. I. To this back door he holds a lighted candle."
9159,"A bowl of vegetable soup with crackers was enough for me, and I soon headed back for my cheerless room at the Gilman; getting an evening paper and a flyspecked magazine from the evil visaged clerk at the rickety stand beside his desk."
9160,"By this time two policemen had arrived; and Dr. Morgan, meeting them in the vestibule, was urging them for their own sakes to postpone entrance to the stench filled reading room till the examiner came and the prostrate thing could be covered up."
9161,"In proper season, of course, they would return home; and the author, happening, one day, to require their services for a short voyage, is unexpectedly carried straight tip, and in a very brief period arrives at the satellite."
9162,"In Brewster's Letters on Natural Magic, we have an account of the most remarkable."
9163,But that could not be.
9164,"After midnight their shrill notes burst into a kind of pandaemoniac cachinnation which filled all the countryside, and not until dawn did they finally quiet down."
9165,"The analytical power should not be confounded with ample ingenuity; for while the analyst is necessarily ingenious, the ingenious man is often remarkably incapable of analysis."
9166,I surveyed their characteristics.
9167,"His limbs were nearly frozen, and his body dreadfully emaciated by fatigue and suffering."
9168,"""I hope you won't stay till after dark."
9169,"These Indians shewed choler when the place was built, and were plaguy pestilent in asking to visit the grounds at the full of the moon."
9170,"""'But,' says L'Etoile, 'if the body had been kept in its mangled state on shore until Tuesday night, some trace would be found on shore of the murderers.'"
9171,"If dishonour, or what I conceive to be dishonour, come near me, I am lost."""
9172,"I scrutinized the formation of the chin and here, too, I found the gentleness of breadth, the softness and the majesty, the fullness and the spirituality, of the Greek the contour which the god Apollo revealed but in a dream, to Cleomenes, the son of the Athenian."
9173,"""Since you have preserved my narration,"" said he, ""I would not that a mutilated one should go down to posterity."""
9174,They appeared to me white whiter than the sheet upon which I trace these words and thin even to grotesqueness; thin with the intensity of their expression of firmness of immoveable resolution of stern contempt of human torture.
9175,The Duchess of Bless my Soul was sitting for her portrait; the Marquis of So and So was holding the Duchess' poodle; the Earl of This and That was flirting with her salts; and his Royal Highness of Touch me Not was leaning upon the back of her chair.
9176,Great excitement once came to The Street.
9177,"Before any one of us could recover from the extreme astonishment into which this rudeness had thrown all, we heard the voice of the intruder."
9178,"What was the unknown island on which six of the Emma's crew had died, and about which the mate Johansen was so secretive?"
9179,"""Good old rye, an' as fiery as ya kin find anyw'eres in Chi'."""
9180,"I have said that I minutely remember the details of the chamber yet I am sadly forgetful on topics of deep moment and here there was no system, no keeping, in the fantastic display, to take hold upon the memory."
9181,"Write now"" and I wrote as he dictated."
9182,Thus ended a day memorable to me; it decided my future destiny.
9183,"I see the desolate plain covered with white, save a few black patches that the noonday sun has made at the top of those sharp pointed hillocks from which the snow, sliding as it fell, lay thinner than on the plain ground: a few birds are pecking at the hard ice that covers the pools for the frost has been of long continuance."
9184,"Mocking her own desires, she rallied her guests on their early departure."
9185,We rise; one wand'ring thought pollutes the day.
9186,"This interference often took the ungracious character of advice; advice not openly given, but hinted or insinuated."
9187,"The details contained in the foregoing pages, apparently trivial, yet each slightest one weighing like lead in the depressed scale of human afflictions; this tedious dwelling on the sorrows of others, while my own were only in apprehension; this slowly laying bare of my soul's wounds: this journal of death; this long drawn and tortuous path, leading to the ocean of countless tears, awakens me again to keen grief."
9188,"Every motive, every threat, every angry taunt was urged in vain."
9189,The one midway is Moskoe.
9190,"At one bend he saw the group of giant elms among which an ancestor had oddly vanished a century and a half before, and shuddered as the wind blew meaningly through them."
9191,"""The cottagers arose the next morning before the sun."
9192,"I was too much exhausted to reflect upon this circumstance, but ate and drank with avidity."
9193,Mrs. Updike's clothes were close to the front hall switch that's how I know she did it.
9194,On the third morning occurred the first of the man's mental attacks.
9195,But I was not to reach my destination without one very strong impression of poignantly disagreeable quality.
9196,"From this time Felix was more employed, and the heart moving indications of impending famine disappeared."
9197,"He was gay, playful, fascinating but never did he overstep the modesty of nature, or the respect due to himself, in his wildest sallies."
9198,what avails the vigilance against the Destiny of man?
9199,"Yet perhaps I shall not be too late."""
9200,"This benefit was fully repaid; Justine was the most grateful little creature in the world: I do not mean that she made any professions I never heard one pass her lips, but you could see by her eyes that she almost adored her protectress."
9201,Cahoone in the War of .
9202,"His extraction was obscure; but circumstances brought him early into public notice, and his small paternal property was soon dissipated in the splendid scene of fashion and luxury in which he was an actor."
9203,"Do you indeed sleep, Mathilda?"
9204,"She hung down her head, and said not a syllable in reply."
9205,Nothing would have tempted me to within half a dozen yards of its brink.
9206,"Every shade of New England dialect, from the uncouth syllables of the Puritan colonists to the precise rhetoric of fifty years ago, seemed represented in that shadowy colloquy, though it was only later that I noticed the fact."
9207,"It first rolled down the side of the steeple, then lodge, for a few seconds, in the gutter, and then made its way, with a plunge, into the middle of the street."
9208,"""Listen to me The waves from that thing are waking a thousand sleeping senses in us; senses which we inherit from aeons of evolution from the state of detached electrons to the state of organic humanity."
9209,"It must have been by an accident, in its strictest sense, that these garters of Marie needed the tightening described."
9210,"The damn' government can try tuh make folks good ef it wants tuh, but it can't stop a feller from hittin' 'er up when he feels like it."
9211,"On the second night after my release, I was again taken by the gamekeepers again imprisoned, and again released; and again, such was my pertinacity, did the fourth night find me in the forbidden park."
9212,Many projects entered my mind.
9213,When I was twelve years old it occurred to my aunt that I ought to learn music; she herself played upon the harp.
9214,"In this latter respect I was forced to take Talbot's advice; for he remained obstinately deaf to every further question or suggestion, and occupied himself exclusively for the rest of the evening with what was transacting upon the stage."
9215,"Diotima approached the fountain seated herself on a mossy mound near it and her disciples placed themselves on the grass near her Without noticing me who sat close under her she continued her discourse addressing as it happened one or other of her listeners but before I attempt to repeat her words I will describe the chief of these whom she appeared to wish principally to impress One was a woman of about years of age in the full enjoyment of the most exquisite beauty her golden hair floated in ringlets on her shoulders her hazle eyes were shaded by heavy lids and her mouth the lips apart seemed to breathe sensibility But she appeared thoughtful unhappy her cheek was pale she seemed as if accustomed to suffer and as if the lessons she now heard were the only words of wisdom to which she had ever listened The youth beside her had a far different aspect his form was emaciated nearly to a shadow his features were handsome but thin worn his eyes glistened as if animating the visage of decay his forehead was expansive but there was a doubt perplexity in his looks that seemed to say that although he had sought wisdom he had got entangled in some mysterious mazes from which he in vain endeavoured to extricate himself As Diotima spoke his colour went came with quick changes the flexible muscles of his countenance shewed every impression that his mind received he seemed one who in life had studied hard but whose feeble frame sunk beneath the weight of the mere exertion of life the spark of intelligence burned with uncommon strength within him but that of life seemed ever on the eve of fading At present I shall not describe any other of this groupe but with deep attention try to recall in my memory some of the words of Diotima they were words of fire but their path is faintly marked on my recollection It requires a just hand, said she continuing her discourse, to weigh divide the good from evil On the earth they are inextricably entangled and if you would cast away what there appears an evil a multitude of beneficial causes or effects cling to it mock your labour When I was on earth and have walked in a solitary country during the silence of night have beheld the multitude of stars, the soft radiance of the moon reflected on the sea, which was studded by lovely islands When I have felt the soft breeze steal across my cheek as the words of love it has soothed cherished me then my mind seemed almost to quit the body that confined it to the earth with a quick mental sense to mingle with the scene that I hardly saw I felt Then I have exclaimed, oh world how beautiful thou art Oh brightest universe behold thy worshiper spirit of beauty of sympathy which pervades all things, now lifts my soul as with wings, how have you animated the light the breezes Deep inexplicable spirit give me words to express my adoration; my mind is hurried away but with language I cannot tell how I feel thy loveliness Silence or the song of the nightingale the momentary apparition of some bird that flies quietly past all seems animated with thee more than all the deep sky studded with worlds"" If the winds roared tore the sea and the dreadful lightnings seemed falling around me still love was mingled with the sacred terror I felt; the majesty of loveliness was deeply impressed on me So also I have felt when I have seen a lovely countenance or heard solemn music or the eloquence of divine wisdom flowing from the lips of one of its worshippers a lovely animal or even the graceful undulations of trees inanimate objects have excited in me the same deep feeling of love beauty; a feeling which while it made me alive eager to seek the cause animator of the scene, yet satisfied me by its very depth as if I had already found the solution to my enquires sic as if in feeling myself a part of the great whole I had found the truth secret of the universe But when retired in my cell I have studied contemplated the various motions and actions in the world the weight of evil has confounded me If I thought of the creation I saw an eternal chain of evil linked one to the other from the great whale who in the sea swallows destroys multitudes the smaller fish that live on him also torment him to madness to the cat whose pleasure it is to torment her prey I saw the whole creation filled with pain each creature seems to exist through the misery of another death havoc is the watchword of the animated world And Man also even in Athens the most civilized spot on the earth what a multitude of mean passions envy, malice a restless desire to depreciate all that was great and good did I see And in the dominions of the great being I saw man reduced?"
9216,"At all this I felt mortified, and so called upon my father."
9217,Meanwhile no more must be told.
9218,"The magistrate appeared at first perfectly incredulous, but as I continued he became more attentive and interested; I saw him sometimes shudder with horror; at others a lively surprise, unmingled with disbelief, was painted on his countenance."
9219,"Being now assured of her absence, I returned with a palpitating heart to the scene of my disaster."
9220,"In a fearfully brief period the patient died, when it appeared that in the jar containing the leeches, had been introduced, by accident, one of the venomous vermicular sangsues which are now and then found in the neighboring ponds."
9221,"He would talk of the wonderful powers of man, of their present state and of their hopes: of what they had been and what they were, and when reason could no longer guide him, his imagination as if inspired shed light on the obscurity that veils the past and the future."
9222,"At first the high priests liked not these festivals, for there had descended amongst them queer tales of how the sea green eikon had vanished, and how Taran Ish had died from fear and left a warning."
9223,"The walls were of bare boards, and had probably never known plaster; whilst the abundance of dust and cobwebs made the place seem more deserted than inhabited."
9224,"And every morning, when the day broke, I went boldly into the chamber, and spoke courageously to him, calling him by name in a hearty tone, and inquiring how he has passed the night."
9225,"""He was a great fool, beyond doubt,"" interposed some one, ""but not to be compared with a certain individual whom we all know, with the exception of this strange gentleman."
9226,"As the hours wore on I saw his head droop awkwardly in sleep, but I did not disturb him."
9227,"I will not be put off thus: do you think that I can live thus fearfully from day to day the sword in my bosom yet kept from its mortal wound by a hair a word I demand that dreadful word; though it be as a flash of lightning to destroy me, speak it."
9228,"I beg your pardon, sir,"" here he addresses a gentleman on shore, ""but you have the air of an honest man."
9229,"He was again in the cramped, violet litten peaked space with the slanting floor, the low cases of ancient books, the bench and table, the queer objects, and the triangular gulf at one side."
9230,"I examined all my apparatus, however, with great attention, and could discover nothing out of order."
9231,Do not think that I shall be slow to perform this sacrifice.
9232,In this manner the chase continued for a long time.
9233,"Unsupported and weak, let him wander through fields where the unreaped corn stands in barren plenty, through copses planted by his fathers, through towns built for his use."
9234,This idea was probably suggested by the extreme agitation I had exhibited when the mode of the murder had been described.
9235,"""The stupor and surprise produced in my mind by this extraordinary change in the posture of affairs was perhaps, after all, that part of the adventure least susceptible of explanation."
9236,"Somewhat amazed at all this, I made my retreat to the Baron."
9237,"All the time he had passed out of England was as a dream, and all the interest of his soul, all his affections belonged to events which had happened and persons who had existed sixteen years before."
9238,"The Boatswain Müller, an elderly man who would have known better had he not been a superstitious Alsatian swine, became so excited by this impression that he watched the body in the water; and swore that after it sank a little it drew its limbs into a swimming position and sped away to the south under the waves."
9239,"I hesitated to ride, or to walk, or to indulge in any exercise that would carry me from home."
9240,"Nor can I better define that peculiarity of spirit which seemed to place him so essentially apart from all other human beings, than by calling it a habit of intense and continual thought, pervading even his most trivial actions intruding upon his moments of dalliance and interweaving itself with his very flashes of merriment like adders which writhe from out the eyes of the grinning masks in the cornices around the temples of Persepolis."
9241,"I did not, however, succeed in finding my late companion, for the dolphins were massed thickly and obscuringly about the conning tower."
9242,"No, he had determined to die, and he wished to spare me the misery of knowing it."
9243,"I have not been quite well for some days past, and poor old Jup annoys me, almost beyond endurance, by his well meant attentions Would you believe it?"
9244,"It is not improbable that the relatives of Legrand, conceiving him to be somewhat unsettled in intellect, had contrived to instil this obstinacy into Jupiter, with a view to the supervision and guardianship of the wanderer."
9245,"""You then,"" I asked, ""still remain in Greece?"" ""Assuredly,"" replied Raymond."
9246,"He had chosen this work, he said, because the declamatory style was framed in imitation of the Eastern authors."
9247,"Instead, his surroundings depressed him; and he frequently wrote to a friend in Albany of plans to leave the paternal roof."
9248,"This letter was enclosed to the care of a nobleman, who, he did not doubt, would perform the last and inexpensive office of placing it in the king's own hand."
9249,Pestilence will usher you to his presence.
9250,"""EXTRAORDINARY MURDERS."
9251,"The knowledge of his success had become so much a part of himself, that he forgot that it was necessary to impart it to his companion."
9252,"I trembled from head to foot; I felt a presentiment of who it was and wished to rouse one of the peasants who dwelt in a cottage not far from mine; but I was overcome by the sensation of helplessness, so often felt in frightful dreams, when you in vain endeavour to fly from an impending danger, and was rooted to the spot."
9253,"When there is no angle in other words, when the rope hangs perpendicularly, the whole apparatus is stationary; but the larger the angle, that is to say, the farther the balloon precedes the end of the rope, the greater the velocity; and the converse."
9254,"Yet experience has shown, and a true philosophy will always show, that a vast, perhaps the larger portion of truth, arises from the seemingly irrelevant."
9255,"In the mean time the investigation proceeded with vigor, if not always with judgment, and numerous individuals were examined to no purpose; while, owing to the continual absence of all clue to the mystery, the popular excitement greatly increased."
9256,"In a second all my plans were utterly changed for if the southward highway were blocked ahead of me, I must clearly find another egress from Innsmouth."
9257,"The Fish Street bridge, according to the sketch, was in ruins."
9258,"Gilman had a constant sense of dread that it might rise to some unbearable degree of intensity during one or another of its obscure, relentlessly inevitable fluctuations."
9259,"With little difficulty I made my way unperceived to the main hatchway, which was partially open, and soon found an opportunity of secreting myself in the hold."
9260,I resolved at once to become a great man and to commence by becoming a great poet.
9261,"He lived with one manservant in a Georgian homestead with knocker and iron railed steps, balanced eerily on a steep ascent of North Court Street beside the ancient brick court and colony house where his grandfather a cousin of that celebrated privateersman, Capt."
9262,"That it was the scene, I may or I may not believe but there was excellent reason for doubt."
9263,"The gorilla was off its guard, but not for long, and before anything could be done by the regular trainer the body which had belonged to a baronet was past recognition."
9264,"The benches were very empty, those by custom occupied by the hereditary members were vacant; the city members were there the members for the commercial towns, few landed proprietors, and not many of those who entered parliament for the sake of a career."
9265,"But when two days later the squatters told me what the red glare meant, I felt more horror than that which the mould burrow and the claw and eyes had given; more horror because of the overwhelming implications."
9266,A very mean diddle is this.
9267,"It now occurred to me that the bandage, or surcingle, which enveloped me, was unique."
9268,"On page , pamphlet edition, speaking of ""a hairy veil"" over the eyes of a species of bison, the author says: ""It immediately occurred to the acute mind of Dr. Herschel that this was a providential contrivance to protect the eyes of the animal from the great extremes of light and darkness to which all the inhabitants of our side of the moon are periodically subjected."""
9269,"I can choose my current, and should I find all currents against me, I can make very tolerable headway with the propeller."
9270,"""To morrow,"" said Raymond, ""his mother and sister set out for Scotland to see him once again."""
9271,"Jupiter, at a signal from his master, began to gather up his tools."
9272,"Several of the coffins began to split under the stress of handling, and he planned to save the stoutly built casket of little Matthew Fenner for the top, in order that his feet might have as certain a surface as possible."
9273,"I had no alternative but to conclude him stricken with lunacy, and I became seriously anxious about getting him home."
9274,"You are cast out shelterless on the world: your hopes are blasted; the peace and security of your pure mind destroyed; memory will bring to you frightful images of guilt, and the anguish of innocent love betrayed."
9275,"Wealth was an inferior object, but what glory would attend the discovery if I could banish disease from the human frame and render man invulnerable to any but a violent death Nor were these my only visions."
9276,"First of all, the new light revealed the distorted and blackened form of the mysterious stranger."
9277,"Such an occurrence, of course, attracted universal attention, and every little old gentleman who sat in a leather bottomed arm chair turned one of his eyes with a stare of dismay upon the phenomenon, still keeping the other upon the clock in the steeple."
9278,"For my own part, I do not hesitate to say that, notwithstanding all the evidence produced against her, I believe and rely on her perfect innocence."
9279,"As I spoke, my subject carried me away; deep admiration; grief, the offspring of truest affection, the overflowing of a heart bursting with sympathy for all that had been great and sublime in the career of my friend, inspired me as I poured forth the praises of Raymond."
9280,"He found the man, Athib, sitting on the same chest of spices he had sat upon before, and Athib seemed not to realise that any time had passed."
9281,"To those who have cherished an affection for a faithful and sagacious dog, I need hardly be at the trouble of explaining the nature or the intensity of the gratification thus derivable."
9282,"Having deposited our mournful burden upon tressels within this region of horror, we partially turned aside the yet unscrewed lid of the coffin, and looked upon the face of the tenant."
9283,"Such a violet was sweet Perdita, trembling to entrust herself to the very air, cowering from observation, yet betrayed by her excellences; and repaying with a thousand graces the labour of those who sought her in her lonely bye path."
9284,These are the words of the Encyclopædia Britannica.
9285,"""The book from which Felix instructed Safie was Volney's Ruins of Empires."
9286,"In the midst of this debris, wedged between a fallen plank and a cluster of cemented bricks from the ruined chimney, was an object destined to cause more bafflement, veiled fright, and openly superstitious talk in Arkham than anything else discovered in the haunted and accursed building."
9287,"It was hurt, but not destroyed."
9288,"In the confusion attending my fall, I did not immediately apprehend a somewhat startling circumstance, which yet, in a few seconds afterward, and while I still lay prostrate, arrested my attention."
9289,"It was his practice to take a very large dose of it immediately after breakfast each morning or, rather, immediately after a cup of strong coffee, for he ate nothing in the forenoon and then set forth alone, or attended only by a dog, upon a long ramble among the chain of wild and dreary hills that lie westward and southward of Charlottesville, and are there dignified by the title of the Ragged Mountains."
9290,"It hung upon our limbs upon the household furniture upon the goblets from which we drank; and all things were depressed, and borne down thereby all things save only the flames of the seven lamps which illumined our revel."
9291,"When we gazed around the horizon, we could not find the third tower by the river, and noticed that the silhouette of the second tower was ragged at the top."
9292,"She flapped her wings with prodigious effect so so and, as for her crow, it was delicious Cock a doodle doo cock a doodle doo cock a doodle de doo dooo do o o o o o o"" ""Madame Joyeuse, I will thank you to behave yourself"" here interrupted our host, very angrily."
9293,"Our journey here lost the interest arising from beautiful scenery, but we arrived in a few days at Rotterdam, whence we proceeded by sea to England."
9294,But you should have seen me.
9295,"This would have sounded more gracefully, I think."
9296,"There is unknown magic on Hatheg Kla, for the screams of the frightened gods have turned to laughter, and the slopes of ice shoot up endlessly into the black heavens whither I am plunging. . . ."
9297,"I paced the floor to and fro with heavy strides, as if excited to fury by the observations of the men but the noise steadily increased."
9298,"It must have been a peculiarity of color, of quantity, of length, or of situation."
9299,"But a blight had come over my existence, and I only visited these people for the sake of the information they might give me on the subject in which my interest was so terribly profound."
9300,"In any case such a monster must of necessity be in our scheme of things an anomaly and an intruder, whose extirpation forms a primary duty with every man not an enemy to the world's life, health, and sanity."
9301,During its perusal she was suddenly interrupted by the entrance of the other exalted personage from whom especially it was her wish to conceal it.
9302,"Ronald Hill, only to be shot down when directly over his destination."
9303,"She fed even to tears of joy on the praise and glory of her Lord; her whole existence was one sacrifice to him, and if in the humility of her heart she felt self complacency, it arose from the reflection that she had won the distinguished hero of the age, and had for years preserved him, even after time had taken from love its usual nourishment."
9304,"Ast 'em whar they come from, an' ef they cud git more, an' finally wormed the story aout o' the old chief Walakea, they called him."
9305,"Yet his manners are so conciliating and gentle that the sailors are all interested in him, although they have had very little communication with him."
9306,"The conclusion was plain, and again narrowed in the field of my investigations."
9307,They were fond of the sweet orphan.
9308,"May the merciful gods, if indeed there be such, guard those hours when no power of the will, or drug that the cunning of man devises, can keep me from the chasm of sleep."
9309,"My friend had told me of him, and of the impelling fascination and allurement of his revelations, and I burned with eagerness to explore his uttermost mysteries."
9310,"This act did not prevent young Ellison, upon his twenty first birth day, from entering into possession, as the heir of his ancestor, Seabright, of a fortune of four hundred and fifty millions of dollars."
9311,"We could inflict no punishment so severe, and we would inflict it, but for the boredom which we should cause our readers in so doing."
9312,"When I said these words, I of course expected some lively sally from Bedloe in reply, but, to my astonishment, he hesitated, trembled, became fearfully pallid, and remained silent."
9313,"I wish to describe, but am disheartened by the difficulty of description, and hesitate between detail and generality."
9314,"He was looking, he had to admit, for a kind of formula or incantation containing the frightful name Yog Sothoth, and it puzzled him to find discrepancies, duplications, and ambiguities which made the matter of determination far from easy."
9315,"The breeze scattered the grey locks on his temples, the rain drenched his uncovered head, he sat hiding his face in his withered hands."
9316,I did so; but the difficulty was even more obvious than before.
9317,There is in the land of Mnar a vast still lake that is fed by no stream and out of which no stream flows.
9318,"All of this material I cannot hope to give, for my uncle was a tireless antiquarian and very deeply interested in the shunned house; but I may refer to several dominant points which earn notice by their recurrence through many reports from diverse sources."
9319,"With all the incongruities of his character, Raymond was emphatically a man of the world."
9320,"In this low and small room there hung no lamp; and now no light at all was admitted, save that of the exceedingly feeble dawn which made its way through the semi circular window."
9321,"I arose from my seat, and throwing open one of the doors of the library, saw standing out in the ante chamber a servant maiden, all in tears, who told me that Berenice was no more She had been seized with epilepsy in the early morning, and now, at the closing in of the night, the grave was ready for its tenant, and all the preparations for the burial were completed."
9322,"The climax of that awful night was composite but fairly brief, beginning just as I reached the final cavern of the journey."
9323,"And the man trembled in the solitude; but the night waned, and he sat upon the rock."
9324,He looked round timidly; a mist seemed before his eyes.
9325,"It was at a Jew's shop in the squalid precincts of Clare Market, where he had often bought strange things before, and he almost fancied the gnarled old Levite smiled amidst tangles of beard as the great discovery was made."
9326,"""Scoundrel"" I said, in a voice husky with rage, while every syllable I uttered seemed as new fuel to my fury, ""scoundrel impostor accursed villain you shall not you shall not dog me unto death Follow me, or I stab you where you stand"" and I broke my way from the ball room into a small ante chamber adjoining dragging him unresistingly with me as I went."
9327,"His possessions had been always ample; but on the attainment of his majority, it was discovered that one of those extraordinary freaks of fate had been played in his behalf which startle the whole social world amid which they occur, and seldom fail radically to alter the moral constitution of those who are their objects."
9328,He perpetually frequented the walks that had been favourites with him when he and my mother wandered together talking of love and happiness; he collected every relick that remained of her and always sat opposite her picture which hung in the room fixing on it a look of sad despair and all this was done in a mystic and awful silence.
9329,"""I do,"" said I, blowing it well."
9330,In looking from the summit of a mountain we cannot help feeling abroad in the world.
9331,They left me happy how unspeakably happy.
9332,Among the rubbish which had crashed through the ancient slanting ceiling were several things which made the workmen pause and call in the police.
9333,"He dreaded to cross the bridge that gave a view of the desolate island in the Miskatonic, so went over the Peabody Avenue bridge."
9334,"Between the chief building and western wing arose a very tall and rather slender square chimney of hard Dutch bricks, alternately black and red: a slight cornice of projecting bricks at the top."
9335,"""I tell ye, Mis' Corey, they's suthin' abroad as hadn't orter be abroad, an' I for one think that black Wilbur Whateley, as come to the bad eend he desarved, is at the bottom of the breedin' of it."
9336,"There seemed very little taste, however, in the arrangements; and my eyes, accustomed to quiet lights, were sadly offended by the prodigious glare of a multitude of wax candles, which, in silver candelabra, were deposited upon the table, and all about the room, wherever it was possible to find a place."
9337,"The paragraph was inserted in an obscure part: ""We regret to state that there can be no longer a doubt of the plague having been introduced at Leghorn, Genoa, and Marseilles."""
9338,Yet there is a necessity for disposing of the corpse.
9339,For your life you could not have found a fault with its wonderful proportion.
9340,"Just before entering the cut I glanced behind me, but saw no pursuer."
9341,"But I consented to listen, and seating myself by the fire which my odious companion had lighted, he thus began his tale."
9342,"One steady patron a bank defaulter under cover came to converse with him quite regularly, and from the tone of his discourse ventured the opinion that he had been a writer or professor in his day."
9343,In some places they was little stones strewed abaout like charms with somethin' on 'em like what ye call a swastika naowadays.
9344,"I have gazed on you as you slept, melted even to tears, as the idea filled my mind, that all I possessed lay cradled in those idolized, but mortal lineaments before me."
9345,"You are very young; let not this check for more than a moment retard your glorious course; hold on, beloved one."
9346,"I I could not Thus it is said the Prussian Isis has, for some persons, a sweet and very powerful perfume, while to others it is perfectly scentless."
9347,I was deeply interested in the little family history which he detailed to me with all that candor which a Frenchman indulges whenever mere self is his theme.
9348,"To muse for long unwearied hours, with my attention riveted to some frivolous device on the margin, or in the typography of a book; to become absorbed, for the better part of a summer's day, in a quaint shadow falling aslant upon the tapestry or upon the floor; to lose myself, for an entire night, in watching the steady flame of a lamp, or the embers of a fire; to dream away whole days over the perfume of a flower; to repeat, monotonously, some common word, until the sound, by dint of frequent repetition, ceased to convey any idea whatever to the mind; to lose all sense of motion or physical existence, by means of absolute bodily quiescence long and obstinately persevered in: such were a few of the most common and least pernicious vagaries induced by a condition of the mental faculties, not, indeed, altogether unparalleled, but certainly bidding defiance to anything like analysis or explanation."
9349,As soon as possible I visited the grave of Jan Martense and dug vainly where I had dug before.
9350,"Then he saw the volume and shuddered wildly, and fainted altogether when Williams uttered the title."
9351,Surely in that moment I should have been possessed by frenzy and have destroyed my miserable existence but that my vow was heard and that I was reserved for vengeance.
9352,"Never before were two houses so illustrious, mutually embittered by hostility so deadly."
9353,"""It gives me the greatest delight to see you; but tell me how you left my father, brothers, and Elizabeth."""
9354,"And as I writhe in my guilty agony, frantic to save the city whose peril every moment grows, and vainly striving to shake off this unnatural dream of a house of stone and brick south of a sinister swamp and a cemetery on a low hillock; the Pole Star, evil and monstrous, leers down from the black vault, winking hideously like an insane watching eye which strives to convey some strange message, yet recalls nothing save that it once had a message to convey."
9355,"To the right and left, in the middle of each wall, a tall and narrow Gothic window looked out upon a closed corridor which pursued the windings of the suite."
9356,"It was exquisitely lovely this, of course, my heart had told me before, even had not Talbot fully satisfied me upon the point but still the unintelligible something disturbed me."
9357,Continued last night our astronomical amusements.
9358,"I was evidently approaching it, and with great rapidity."
9359,"Without was the ""Red Death."""
9360,"For many months after that Kuranes sought the marvellous city of Celephaïs and its sky bound galleys in vain; and though his dreams carried him to many gorgeous and unheard of places, no one whom he met could tell him how to find Ooth Nargai, beyond the Tanarian Hills."
9361,Where then was my guardian angel?
9362,The presence of a friend in its armies and councils made us enter into the details with enthusiasm; and a short letter now and then from Raymond told us how he was engrossed by the interests of his adopted country.
9363,"Chapter We passed a few sad hours until eleven o'clock, when the trial was to commence."
9364,"""A few days after, the Turk entered his daughter's apartment and told her hastily that he had reason to believe that his residence at Leghorn had been divulged and that he should speedily be delivered up to the French government; he had consequently hired a vessel to convey him to Constantinople, for which city he should sail in a few hours."
9365,"Through all the years Wilbur had treated his half deformed albino mother with a growing contempt, finally forbidding her to go to the hills with him on May Eve and Hallowmass; and in the poor creature complained to Mamie Bishop of being afraid of him."
9366,The servants were gone to a neighbouring fair.
9367,"""I don't mean that you should be at all this trouble for nothing, sir,"" said the man."
9368,"The war, which about a year before the present time had broken out between Greece and Turkey, brought about many reverses of fortune."
9369,"A beautiful woman still; don't you think so, Froissart?"
9370,"He takes a puff and a look, and then a look and a puff."
9371,"One tempestuous night, Metzengerstein, awaking from a heavy slumber, descended like a maniac from his chamber, and, mounting in hot haste, bounded away into the mazes of the forest."
9372,"You pelief, ten, in te possibilty of te odd?"""
9373,"""At five o'clock, p.m., being engaged in regenerating the atmosphere within the chamber, I took that opportunity of observing the cat and kittens through the valve."
9374,A smell of oil was all that came up from the regions below.
9375,"""It is clearly inferred,"" replied the Prefect, ""from the nature of the document, and from the non appearance of certain results which would at once arise from its passing out of the robber's possession; that is to say, from his employing it as he must design in the end to employ it."""
9376,To day I found an enormous increase in the moon's apparent bulk and the evidently accelerated velocity of my descent began to fill me with alarm.
9377,"Our progress downward, at each revolution, was slow, but very perceptible."
9378,"It was in the hey day of youth, in the pride of boyish folly."
9379,They penetrate into the recesses of nature and show how she works in her hiding places.
9380,The disquisitions upon death and suicide were calculated to fill me with wonder.
9381,I fear that he will become an idler unless we yield the point and permit him to enter on the profession which he has selected.
9382,"Not long after this, we were looking over an evening edition of the ""Gazette des Tribunaux,"" when the following paragraphs arrested our attention."
9383,"This room was crowded with old beds, boxes, and so forth."
9384,"She had just awakened from an unquiet slumber, and I had been watching, with feelings half of anxiety, half of vague terror, the workings of her emaciated countenance."
9385,"""In that case,"" replied Dupin, opening a drawer, and producing a check book, ""you may as well fill me up a check for the amount mentioned."
9386,"""This, my friend, is probably the last time we shall have an opportunity of conversing freely; my plans are now in full operation, and my time will become more and more occupied."
9387,"Every preparation likely to embarrass us, having been made over night, we commenced the inflation this morning at daybreak; but owing to a thick fog, which encumbered the folds of the silk and rendered it unmanageable, we did not get through before nearly eleven o'clock."
9388,The following winter brought an event no less strange than Wilbur's first trip outside the Dunwich region.
9389,"This circumstance first aroused in us the suspicion that the more remote portion of the machinery was so arranged as to be easily slipped, en masse, from its position when occasion should require it."
9390,"""Where are we?"" she cried, ""where are we going?"""
9391,"""I drink,"" he said, ""to the buried that repose around us."" ""And I to your long life."""
9392,We soon discovered that we were the sole survivors of the accident.
9393,"How, I often asked myself, could the stolid imagination of a Catskill degenerate conjure up sights whose very possession argued a lurking spark of genius?"
9394,"As prearranged, the three adventurers started out separately in order to prevent any evil minded suspicions afterward."
9395,"On the present occasion she did not suspect any alienation of affection; but she conjectured that some circumstance connected with his high place, had occasioned this mystery."
9396,"There is something in the unselfish and self sacrificing love of a brute, which goes directly to the heart of him who has had frequent occasion to test the paltry friendship and gossamer fidelity of mere Man."
9397,"Thus I stood upon a pinnacle, a sea of evil rolled at my feet; I was about to precipitate myself into it, and rush like a torrent over all obstructions to the object of my wishes when a stranger influence came over the current of my fortunes, and changed their boisterous course to what was in comparison like the gentle meanderings of a meadow encircling streamlet."
9398,"Only on closer view did he mark the starved fancy and beauty, the stale and prosy triteness, and the owlish gravity and grotesque claims of solid truth which reigned boresomely and overwhelmingly among most of its professors; or feel to the full the awkwardness with which it sought to keep alive as literal fact the outgrown fears and guesses of a primal race confronting the unknown."
9399,I told you it was dangerous to move.
9400,"This could only be the case were her walks of the same unvarying, methodical character, and within the same species of limited region as are his own."
9401,"Winter was hailed, a general and never failing physician."
9402,"""I often visit him,"" replied Adrian; ""but you may easily guess the motives, which prevent him from coming where his presence may annoy any one among us."""
9403,"I would not dare,"" he continued to mutter."
9404,Not thus he appeared assuredly not thus in the vivacity of his waking hours.
9405,"Here my friend, about whose madness I now saw, or fancied that I saw, certain indications of method, removed the peg which marked the spot where the beetle fell, to a spot about three inches to the westward of its former position."
9406,"And it is to be regarded as a very peculiar coincidence as one of those positively remarkable coincidences which set a man to serious thinking that just such a total revolution of opinion just such entire bouleversement, as we say in French, just such thorough topsiturviness, if I may be permitted to employ a rather forcible term of the Choctaws, as happened, pro and con, between myself on the one part, and the ""Goosetherumfoodle"" on the other, did actually again happen, in a brief period afterwards, and with precisely similar circumstances, in the case of myself and the ""Rowdy Dow,"" and in the case of myself and the ""HumDrum."""
9407,"The only wonder with us must be, how it happened that Mr. Mill conceived it necessary even to hint at any thing so obvious."
9408,"In company with these gentlemen, my cousin and I, preconcertedly paid uncle Rumgudgeon a visit on the afternoon of Sunday, October the tenth, just three weeks after the memorable decision which had so cruelly defeated our hopes."
9409,"Lonely musings, interminable wanderings, and solemn music were her only pastimes."
9410,"Upon the whole you judge wisely; the trade of editor is best: and if you can be a poet at the same time, as most of the editors are, by the by, why you will kill two birds with one stone."
9411,"Our narrow course began to climb steeply, and I felt a singular sense of disquiet in looking at the lonely crest ahead where the rutted roadway met the sky."
9412,"The borders of the space were entirely of brick, and there seemed little doubt but that he could shortly chisel away enough to allow his body to pass."
9413,"Another filed down a weed choked subway entrance, howling with a laughter that was mad."
9414,"While hatless and dishevelled after my arduous climb, I did not look especially noticeable; and stood a good chance of passing unheeded if forced to encounter any casual wayfarer."
9415,"He thought of the wild tales he had heard, and recalled the old Sunday stories in the Advertiser; these things, and the lore he had picked up from Dunwich rustics and villagers during his one visit there."
9416,"In landscape alone is the principle of the critic true; and, having felt its truth here, it is but the headlong spirit of generalization which has induced him to pronounce it true throughout all the domains of Art."
9417,"Everyone seemed to feel himself in close proximity to phases of Nature and of being utterly forbidden, and wholly outside the sane experience of mankind."
9418,Do you remember our flight on the railroad across the Kanadaw continent?
9419,The incinerator contained only unidentifiable ashes.
9420,"In the Reverend Abijah Hoadley, newly come to the Congregational Church at Dunwich Village, preached a memorable sermon on the close presence of Satan and his imps; in which he said: ""It must be allow'd, that these Blasphemies of an infernall Train of Daemons are Matters of too common Knowledge to be deny'd; the cursed Voices of Azazel and Buzrael, of Beelzebub and Belial, being heard now from under Ground by above a Score of credible Witnesses now living."
9421,"I could only account for all this by extending my theory, and supposing that the highly rarefied atmosphere around might perhaps not be, as I had taken for granted, chemically insufficient for the purposes of life, and that a person born in such a medium might, possibly, be unaware of any inconvenience attending its inhalation, while, upon removal to the denser strata near the earth, he might endure tortures of a similar nature to those I had so lately experienced."
9422,But this nobody sees but himself.
9423,But I have less courage than you and even thus accompanied I dare not die.
9424,It is as the wood of the Eumenides none but the dying may enter; and Oedipus is about to die.
9425,"And when the moon came out at last Atal was safe on the lower snows of the mountain without sight of earth's gods, or of the other gods."
9426,"""Who am I? ah, true I am Baal Zebub, Prince of the Fly."
9427,"By this accident we lost three men overboard with the caboose, and nearly the whole of the larboard bulwarks."
9428,"There seemed to be unusual activity in the town, but I judged that the news of my escape from the Gilman had not yet spread."
9429,"Out of the darkness immediately ahead burst a final shriek from the Mexican, which was joined by such a chorus of uncouth sound as I could never hear again and survive."
9430,"Terrified at the sight of so dangerous a weapon in the possession of an animal so ferocious, and so well able to use it, the man, for some moments, was at a loss what to do."
9431,A scene of the most terrible confusion ensued.
9432,"Let these tears flow not for myself, happy and ungrateful as I am, but for the dead world for our lost country for all of love, and life, and joy, now choked in the dusty chambers of death."""
9433,"I was a poor, uneducated, unbefriended, mountain girl, raised from nothingness by him."
9434,These do not usually inquire with much strictness into the affairs of their juniors.
9435,"It is unnecessary to state the exact character of those disquisitions which, growing out of the volumes I have mentioned, formed, for so long a time, almost the sole conversation of Morella and myself."
9436,"Who has not seen the lightsome earth, the balmy atmosphere, and basking nature become dark, cold and ungenial, when the sleeping wind has awoke in the east?"
9437,A dead weight hung upon us.
9438,"In all these streets no living thing was visible, and I wondered at the complete absense of cats and dogs from Innsmouth."
9439,"I did not accuse Evadne of hypocrisy or a wish to deceive her lover; but the first letter that I saw of hers convinced me that she did not love him; it was written with elegance, and, foreigner as she was, with great command of language."
9440,One part was the hem of the frock and it had been mended.
9441,"Length of years, and subsequent reflection, have enabled me to trace, indeed, some remote connection between this passage in the English moralist and a portion of the character of Ligeia."
9442,"Now, at first glance, this fact strongly militates against my suggestion; but let us reflect."
9443,"Deprived of ordinary resources, the analyst throws himself into the spirit of his opponent, identifies himself therewith, and not unfrequently sees thus, at a glance, the sole methods sometime indeed absurdly simple ones by which he may seduce into error or hurry into miscalculation."
9444,"He was shocked by his guest's drawn, haggard aspect, and noticed the queer, abnormal looking sunburn which others had remarked during the past week."
9445,"Obed he notices, besides, that lots of the han'some young folks ud drop aout o' sight fer good from year to year, an' that they wa'n't many old folks araound."
9446,"In all our transactions with him our honour must be inviolate, the integrity of our relations untainted: fate and circumstance may, when he arrives at maturity, separate us for ever but, as his aegis in danger, his consolation in hardship, let the ardent youth for ever bear with him through the rough path of life, love and honour for his parents."
9447,Raymond had been exalted by the determination he had made; but with the declining day his spirits declined.
9448,"Its contents were of the most startling nature, and its perusal confirmed the gravest of my apprehensions."
9449,A fiend had snatched from me every hope of future happiness; no creature had ever been so miserable as I was; so frightful an event is single in the history of man.
9450,"She seemed to have formed his mind of that excellence which no dross can tarnish, and his understanding was such that no error could pervert."
9451,"He bowed awkwardly, and bade us ""good evening,"" in French accents, which, although somewhat Neufchatelish, were still sufficiently indicative of a Parisian origin."
9452,"See, also, Blunderbuzzard ""De Derivationibus,"" pp. to , Folio, Gothic edit., Red and Black character, Catch word and No Cypher; wherein consult, also, marginal notes in the autograph of Stuffundpuff, with the Sub Commentaries of Gruntundguzzell."
9453,"""Isidore Muset, gendarme, deposes that he was called to the house about three o'clock in the morning, and found some twenty or thirty persons at the gateway, endeavoring to gain admittance."
9454,"But I can be the first to support and guard my country, now that terrific disasters and ruin have laid strong hands upon her."
9455,"Probably it was his work which put the idea into my head, and anyhow, I found him a mine of data and suggestions when I came to develop it."
9456,When the doctor arrived and began to pull down those frightful covers Walter Gilman was dead.
9457,"I must not only punish, but punish with impunity."
9458,"His son was bred in the service of his country, and Agatha had ranked with ladies of the highest distinction."
9459,"Amused me, I say, for my sensations now bordered upon perfect happiness, and the most trifling circumstances afforded me pleasure."
9460,"A party of people flying from London, as was frequent in those days, had come up the Thames in a boat."
9461,"They suspected that I was holding something back, and perhaps suspected graver things; but I could not tell them the truth because they would not have believed it."
9462,"""I have never given the matter a thought,"" I said."
9463,I was forced to repeat this question before the sleep waker fully comprehended my meaning.
9464,"There was an air of anxiety, sometimes of terror in the new comers, strongly contrasted with the resigned and even satisfied mien of those who had had audience."
9465,"The powerful and unjust cowered at the steps of your judgment seat, and the poor and oppressed arose like morn awakened flowers under the sunshine of your protection."
9466,"Here, I thought, was the ideal place for a long secret colloquy; so I guided my companion down the lane and picked out spots to sit in among the mossy stones."
9467,"He was evidently influenced with the first lateral stroke of my hand across his forehead; but although I exerted all my powers, no further perceptible effect was induced until some minutes after ten o'clock, when Doctors D and F called, according to appointment."
9468,"The latter sort is splendidly exemplified by a case in the ancient city of Providence, where in the late forties Edgar Allan used to sojourn often during his unsuccessful wooing of the gifted poetess, Mrs. Whitman."
9469,"These opinions, it will be seen, were embodied in critical notices of the number of the ""Lollipop"" containing my poem, and are perfectly satisfactory, conclusive and clear with the exception, perhaps, of the hieroglyphical marks, ""Sep."
9470,"How strange seemed the denizens with their walking sticks, tall beavers, and cropped heads New sounds came from the distance first strange puffings and shrieks from the river a mile away, and then, many years later, strange puffings and shrieks and rumblings from other directions."
9471,"Barzai the Wise they never found, nor could the holy priest Atal ever be persuaded to pray for his soul's repose."
9472,When I sounded the archaic iron knocker I was half afraid.
9473,I felt that thus only should I look upon it such was the character of phantasm which it wore.
9474,"Nay, more, that this aspiring noble revived the claim of the house of Windsor to the crown, and that, on the event of Adrian's incurable disorder and his marriage with the sister, the brow of the ambitious Raymond might be encircled with the magic ring of regality."
9475,"He betook himself to books with ardour, and reposed from study in the society he best loved, that of his sister and myself."
9476,"I paused and drew into a gaping doorway, reflecting how lucky I was to have left the moonlit open space before these pursuers came down the parallel street."
9477,"He was now tremendously mature of aspect, and his height, having reached the normal adult limit, seemed inclined to wax beyond that figure."
9478,"At first he did not recur to the past, or indeed to any personal occurrences."
9479,"The abyss was now a seething chaos of roseate and cerulean splendour, and invisible voices sang exultantly as the knightly entourage plunged over the edge and floated gracefully down past glittering clouds and silvery coruscations."
9480,"We don't know what it is, but we suspect it has something to do with what he did."
9481,"Each night I returned to the Castle, and found there repose and love awaiting me."
9482,"It was when he regained his senses that he told his story; told his fantastic figment of madness in frantic whispers, lest his friend be not quick to burn the accursed book and give wide scattering to its ashes."
9483,"I do not try, gentlemen, to account for that thing that voice nor can I venture to describe it in detail, since the first words took away my consciousness and created a mental blank which reaches to the time of my awakening in the hospital."
9484,"St. John is a mangled corpse; I alone know why, and such is my knowledge that I am about to blow out my brains for fear I shall be mangled in the same way."
9485,"The men were not pleased at his punishment, but discipline was necessary."
9486,Of one's very remote ancestors it is superfluous to say much.
9487,"Rome, and Florence, and Pisa were overflowed, and their marble palaces, late mirrored in tranquil streams, had their foundations shaken by their winter gifted power."
9488,"Poor and rich were now equal, or rather the poor were the superior, since they entered on such tasks with alacrity and experience; while ignorance, inaptitude, and habits of repose, rendered them fatiguing to the luxurious, galling to the proud, disgustful to all whose minds, bent on intellectual improvement, held it their dearest privilege to be exempt from attending to mere animal wants."
9489,"No one who knows me will doubt that the duty thus self imposed will be executed to the best of my ability, with all that rigid impartiality, all that cautious examination into facts, and diligent collation of authorities, which should ever distinguish him who aspires to the title of historian."
9490,"H."" The face was such that as I gazed, I might well have been studying my mirror."
9491,"Despite a strong physical resemblance to his father, his appearance and conduct were in many particulars so coarse that he was universally shunned."
9492,"Etienne's son Paul, a surly fellow whose erratic conduct had probably provoked the riot which wiped out the family, was particularly a source of speculation; and though Providence never shared the witchcraft panics of her Puritan neighbours, it was freely intimated by old wives that his prayers were neither uttered at the proper time nor directed toward the proper object."
9493,"Once or twice, upon my venturing to express my total incredulity in respect to his pretensions, he grew very angry indeed, so that at length I considered it the wiser policy to say nothing at all, and let him have his own way."
9494,"And when he heard these things his sobbing gave place to meditation, and finally to prayer."
9495,"There was no certainty, of course, in the legend that Gabinius had built an impregnable fortress over the forbidden cave and founded a line which Pict and Saxon, Dane and Norman were powerless to obliterate; or in the tacit assumption that from this line sprang the bold companion and lieutenant of the Black Prince whom Edward Third created Baron of Northam."
9496,"""How cold and damp your hand is,"" said her friend; ""you are over fatigued, pray hasten to rest."""
9497,"It is not permitted me to tell your waking earth self of your real self, but we are all roamers of vast spaces and travellers in many ages."
9498,"This belief had early led me to contemplate the possibility of telepathy or mental communication by means of suitable apparatus, and I had in my college days prepared a set of transmitting and receiving instruments somewhat similar to the cumbrous devices employed in wireless telegraphy at that crude, pre radio period."
9499,"In some degree, also, they diverted my mind from the thoughts over which it had brooded for the last month."
9500,This Island is a very singular one.
9501,"I had ridiculed the fears of my countrymen, when they related to others; now that they came home to myself, I paused."
9502,I was overcome by weariness; the solitude depressed my spirits.
9503,"Before evening I was in the village, getting a meal and providing myself with presentable clothes."
9504,"She had spoken also of the Black Man, of her oath, and of her new secret name of Nahab."
9505,"""Gentlemen,"" he said, in a low, distinct, and never to be forgotten whisper which thrilled to the very marrow of my bones, ""Gentlemen, I make no apology for this behaviour, because in thus behaving, I am but fulfilling a duty."
9506,"Others made long journies to unite themselves to those they loved, and arrived to find them dead."
9507,There was something in the tone of this note which gave me great uneasiness.
9508,"""This is what it is to live,"" he cried; ""how I enjoy existence But you, my dear Frankenstein, wherefore are you desponding and sorrowful"" In truth, I was occupied by gloomy thoughts and neither saw the descent of the evening star nor the golden sunrise reflected in the Rhine."
9509,"""Maybe you are come to a place that will not prove much to your taste, but you will not be consulted as to your quarters, I promise you."""
9510,"In his experiments with various animating solutions he had killed and treated immense numbers of rabbits, guinea pigs, cats, dogs, and monkeys, till he had become the prime nuisance of the college."
9511,"It was about six feet in length by two and a half in breadth; I observed it attentively, and like to be precise."
9512,"That he should know of our existence, and treat us, near at hand, with the same contumely which his father had practised in distance and absence, appeared to me the certain consequence of all that had gone before."
9513,"The feverish interest aroused at the meeting by Legrasse's tale, corroborated as it was by the statuette, is echoed in the subsequent correspondence of those who attended; although scant mention occurs in the formal publications of the society."
9514,"I had watched this scene, for there was a gentleness about the poor woman that interested me; she now tottered away from the door, walking as well as she could down Holborn Hill; but her strength soon failed her; she leaned against a wall, and her head sunk on her bosom, while her pallid cheek became still more white."
9515,"""My dear Miss Zenobia,"" he said, while the tears stood in his eyes, ""is there anything else I can do to promote the success of your laudable undertaking?"
9516,"At the end of this period, however, the gale had freshened into a hurricane, and our after sail split into ribbons, bringing us so much in the trough of the water that we shipped several prodigious seas, one immediately after the other."
9517,Our minds embrace infinity; the visible mechanism of our being is subject to merest accident.
9518,To morrow will be Sunday.
9519,"Application should be made between the hours of ten and eleven A. M., and four and five P. M., of Messrs. ""Bogs, Hogs Logs, Frogs Co., ""No."
9520,"""Fool,"" he shrieked, ""can you not guess my secret?"
9521,"""Happy are dreamers,"" he continued, ""so that they be not awakened Would I could dream but 'broad and garish day' is the element in which I live; the dazzling glare of reality inverts the scene for me."
9522,"Every one has seen the Mediterranean; but let me tell you, there are few who have had a peep at Antioch."
9523,"The country in the neighbourhood of this village resembled, to a greater degree, the scenery of Switzerland; but everything is on a lower scale, and the green hills want the crown of distant white Alps which always attend on the piny mountains of my native country."
9524,"The possible moves being not only manifold but involute, the chances of such oversights are multiplied; and in nine cases out of ten it is the more concentrative rather than the more acute player who conquers."
9525,"I ben callin' this haff hour, an' ye must a heerd me long ago Dun't ye know yer Aunt Marthy's all a fidget over yer bein' off arter dark?"
9526,"All my speculations and hopes are as nothing, and like the archangel who aspired to omnipotence, I am chained in an eternal hell."
9527,"Farewell, Frankenstein If thou wert yet alive and yet cherished a desire of revenge against me, it would be better satiated in my life than in my destruction."
9528,For many miles on either side of the river's oozy bed is a pale desert of gigantic water lilies.
9529,"Fumbling in the rays of my flashlight, I found I could open the shutters; and in another moment had climbed outside and was carefully closing the aperture in its original manner."
9530,I resolved to search out the eccentric sculptor responsible for this apparent disturbance of an old man's peace of mind.
9531,"When we had parted, I had clasped her to my bosom with unrestrained warmth; we met again, and new feelings were awakened; when each beheld the other, childhood passed, as full grown actors on this changeful scene."
9532,"To examine the causes of life, we must first have recourse to death."
9533,"This sound in such a locality naturally stirred us, though less than it would have done at night."
9534,"Nay, she seemed to wish to distract my thoughts from the subject: she rose from the floor: ""Hush"" she said, whisperingly; ""after much weeping, Clara sleeps; we must not disturb her."""
9535,"Our situation had suddenly become grave indeed; for though the chemical air regenerators were intact, and though we could use the devices for raising and submerging the ship and opening the hatches as long as compressed air and storage batteries might hold out, we were powerless to propel or guide the submarine."
9536,"There lay great Cthulhu and his hordes, hidden in green slimy vaults and sending out at last, after cycles incalculable, the thoughts that spread fear to the dreams of the sensitive and called imperiously to the faithful to come on a pilgrimage of liberation and restoration."
9537,"Unaccustomed to industry, he knew not in what way to contribute to the support of his increasing family."
9538,"Your mind wavers, and its agitation will find relief in the exercise of simple memories."
9539,"We called it the ""River of Silence""; for there seemed to be a hushing influence in its flow."
9540,"They blind, deafen, and strangle you, and take away all power of action or reflection."
9541,This news precipitated me from my self raised pinnacle of honour.
9542,"Loss of property, hopelessness as to his future prospects, the inoccupation to which poverty condemned him, combined to reduce him to a state bordering on insanity."
9543,"I need not remind the reader that, from the long and weird catalogue of human miseries, I might have selected many individual instances more replete with essential suffering than any of these vast generalities of disaster."
9544,Unaccountably we remain.
9545,At that instant my father entered.
9546,But I had an object apart from these considerations.
9547,"The tide had turned and was coming in now, and the sound of the waves seemed to arouse him."
9548,"Mr. Ainsworth has not attempted to account for this phenomenon, which, however, is quite susceptible of explanation."
9549,D'ye want to skeer yer Aunt Marthy plumb to death?
9550,"Unable to support the slow withering of her hopes, she suddenly formed a plan, resolving to terminate at once the period of misery, and to bring to an happy conclusion the late disastrous events."
9551,"If a feeling of dissatisfaction ever crossed her, it arose from the idea that he was not perfectly happy."
9552,"To conceive the horror of my sensations is, I presume, utterly impossible; yet a curiosity to penetrate the mysteries of these awful regions, predominates even over my despair, and will reconcile me to the most hideous aspect of death."
9553,"Shall I, in cool blood, set loose upon the earth a daemon whose delight is in death and wretchedness?"
9554,"Joe insisted that the poor young gentleman wear his nickel chained crucifix, and Gilman put it on and dropped it inside his shirt to humour the fellow."
9555,In his wisdom is no stamen.
9556,It seems to me unquestionable that Beauvais was a suitor of Marie's; that she coquetted with him; and that he was ambitious of being thought to enjoy her fullest intimacy and confidence.
9557,"Medical aid was less easily procured, food was more difficult to obtain, and human beings, unwithheld by shame, for they were unbeheld of their fellows, ventured on deeds of greater wickedness, or gave way more readily to their abject fears."
9558,"Monster as I am, you are still, as you ever were, lovely, beautiful beyond expression."
9559,"My eyes became accustomed to the light and to perceive objects in their right forms; I distinguished the insect from the herb, and by degrees, one herb from another."
9560,"As for an introduction, I was obliged to abandon all hope of it until such time as Talbot should think proper to return from the country."
9561,"And the hippopotami heard my call, and came, with the behemoth, unto the foot of the rock, and roared loudly and fearfully beneath the moon."
9562,"His mask and cloak lay, where he had thrown them, upon the floor."
9563,"The time when in proud and happy security we assembled at this cottage, was gone soon the present hours would join those past, and shadows of future ones rose dark and menacing from the womb of time, their cradle and their bier."
9564,"But they tell us that the curse of God is on the place, for every one who has ventured within the walls has been tainted by the plague; that this disease has spread in Thrace and Macedonia; and now, fearing the virulence of infection during the coming heats, a cordon has been drawn on the frontiers of Thessaly, and a strict quarantine exacted."""
9565,"Mr. Pope had just compleated his Epilogue to his Satires the Piece beginning: ""Not twice a Twelvemonth you appear in Print."", and had arrang'd for its Publication."
9566,"Most distinctly Birch was lax, insensitive, and professionally undesirable; yet I still think he was not an evil man."
9567,"The weather was temperate; soft rains fell at night, and by day the wintry sun shone out."
9568,I knew her not or knew her no longer as Berenice.
9569,"With opinions such as these my young friend, too, was fully imbued, and thus it is worthy of observation that the uninterrupted enjoyment which distinguished his life was, in great measure, the result of preconcert."
9570,Then the moon came out.
9571,"Then there were any number of cellar views, with monsters creeping in through holes and rifts in the masonry and grinning as they squatted behind barrels or furnaces and waited for their first victim to descend the stairs."
9572,"Immediately upon its arrival we made sail, and in a short time were safely over the bar and standing out to sea."
9573,"Partly from curiosity and partly from idleness, I went into the lecturing room, which M. Waldman entered shortly after."
9574,"When in company, sadness would in spite of every effort steal over his features, and he sat absent and mute among the busy crowd that thronged about him."
9575,He had seen a little deeper beneath Old Bugs' mask of utter degradation.
9576,"""Oh, Justine"" said she. ""Why did you rob me of my last consolation?"
9577,"The blood flowed freely in my veins, but a weight of despair and remorse pressed on my heart which nothing could remove."
9578,By what malign fatality were we lured to that terrible Holland churchyard?
9579,I rambled away from them.
9580,"When it seemed destined that all were to die, we were reckless of the how and when now that the virulence of the disease was mitigated, and it appeared willing to spare some, each was eager to be among the elect, and clung to life with dastard tenacity."
9581,"I saw Raymond's coal black charger brought to the palace gate; a small company of officers arrived soon after; care and fear was painted on each cheek, and in each eye, unrefreshed by sleep."
9582,"And the shadow rested upon the brazen doorway, and under the arch of the entablature of the door, and moved not, nor spoke any word, but there became stationary and remained."
9583,"Perdita would not enter Athens; but reposing at Marathon on the night of our arrival, conducted me on the following day, to the spot selected by her as the treasure house of Raymond's dear remains."
9584,"This reply I considered a pointed and positive insult, and so left the house at once in high dudgeon, with a firm resolve to call my friend, Mr. Sinivate, to a speedy account for his ungentlemanly conduct and ill breeding."
9585,"Time shall rob me of the graces of maturity, shall take the fire from my eyes, and agility from my limbs, shall steal the better part of life, eager expectation and passionate love, and shower them in double portion on thy dear head."
9586,"The speaker is aware that he displeases; he has every intention to please, he is usually curt, precise, and clear, the most laconic and luminous language is struggling for utterance upon his tongue, it is only with difficulty that he restrains himself from giving it flow; he dreads and deprecates the anger of him whom he addresses; yet, the thought strikes him, that by certain involutions and parentheses this anger may be engendered."
9587,"""Here then is a card, my life."
9588,"Retracing our steps, we came again to the front of the dwelling, rang, and, having shown our credentials, were admitted by the agents in charge."
9589,"The most important crisis of our life calls, trumpet tongued, for immediate energy and action."
9590,"They never did quite figure out what the trouble was, but it was probably some foreign kind of disease brought from China or somewhere by the shipping."
9591,"I scrambled on, until I came to a street, whose wooden houses, half burnt, had been cooled by the rain, and were fortunately uninjured by the gunpowder."
9592,"He was vaguely glad they were locked, because the more he saw of that house the less he wished to get in."
9593,"A room was easy to secure; for the house was unpopular, hard to rent, and long given over to cheap lodgings."
9594,"She was like a fruitful soil that imbibed the airs and dews of heaven, and gave them forth again to light in loveliest forms of fruits and flowers; but then she was often dark and rugged as that soil, raked up, and new sown with unseen seed."
9595,"why, not General John A. B. C.? Savage affair that with the Kickapo o o os, wasn't it?"
9596,"In relating the circumstances which have led to my confinement within this refuge for the demented, I am aware that my present position will create a natural doubt of the authenticity of my narrative."
9597,"Do you, my compassionate friend, tell me how to die peacefully and innocently and I will bless you: all that I, poor wretch, can desire is a painless death."""
9598,Perdita did not oppose herself to his determination.
9599,"We switched from Tremont up Beacon, and Pickman left me at the corner of Joy, where I turned off."
9600,I had no compass with me and was so slenderly acquainted with the geography of this part of the world that the sun was of little benefit to me.
9601,And they said that from their high tower they sometimes saw lights beneath the waters of the lake.
9602,"I conjectured, therefore, that he found on the paper signs for speech which he understood, and I ardently longed to comprehend these also; but how was that possible when I did not even understand the sounds for which they stood as signs?"
9603,"I resolved to quiz him well, now and hereafter."
9604,"By 'sweeps' were meant cylindrical sweeping brushes, such as are employed by those who clean chimneys."
9605,"To morrow arrives, and with it a more impatient anxiety to do our duty, but with this very increase of anxiety arrives, also, a nameless, a positively fearful, because unfathomable, craving for delay."
9606,"The place was ghoulish looking, but I was past minding such impressions and made at once for the staircase revealed by my flashlight after a hasty glance at my watch, which shewed the hour to be a.m."
9607,"This imagination was dreadful in itself, but soothing inasmuch as it supposed the safety of my friends."
9608,"All too well did we trace the sinister lineaments described by the old Arab daemonologist; lineaments, he wrote, drawn from some obscure supernatural manifestation of the souls of those who vexed and gnawed at the dead."
9609,What I saw what I heard what I felt what I thought had about it nothing of the unmistakable idiosyncrasy of the dream.
9610,I consented of course to make this experiment.
9611,"He acquired a habit of writing long documents of some sort, which he carefully sealed and filled with injunctions that I transmit them after his death to certain persons whom he named for the most part lettered East Indians, but including a once celebrated French physician now generally thought dead, and about whom the most inconceivable things had been whispered."
9612,"Idris leaned back in the carriage; her two hands pressed mine, her countenance was placid, she seemed to lose the sense of what she now left, in the memory of what she still possessed."
9613,As he said this he led the way across the ice; I followed.
9614,"After watching over and providing for their safety, her second care was to hide from me her anguish and tears."
9615,"My child, if after this life I am permitted to see you again, if pain can purify the heart, mine will be pure: if remorse may expiate guilt, I shall be guiltless."
9616,"But my chief anxiety was concerning the balloon, which, in spite of the varnish with which it was defended, began to grow rather heavy with the moisture; the powder also was liable to damage."
9617,"Maybe he did, for I dare say the rock formation was interesting, and it's just barely possible he was looking for pirate loot and maybe finding it; but there was talk of his dealing with daemons there."
9618,Does not the sun call in his light?
9619,"A green drapery conceals the back of the Turk, and falls partially over the front of both shoulders."
9620,"And the children grew up comfortably, and more families came from the Mother Land to dwell on The Street."
9621,"This power of retrogradation in its absolute fulness and perfection this faculty of referring at all epochs, all effects to all causes is of course the prerogative of the Deity alone but in every variety of degree, short of the absolute perfection, is the power itself exercised by the whole host of the Angelic intelligences."
9622,On its ermined floor reposes a single feathery paddle of satin wood; but no oarsmen or attendant is to be seen.
9623,The epigram cannot be gainsayed; but the necessity is a thing that does not exist.
9624,"Speechless, I could only wait."
9625,"And again, and again, in secret communion with my own spirit, would I demand the questions ""Who is he? whence came he? and what are his objects?"""
9626,"These words had formed part of that dread ritual which told of dead Cthulhu's dream vigil in his stone vault at R'lyeh, and I felt deeply moved despite my rational beliefs."
9627,"When we arrived at Rodosto, we found that the field had been taken, and the scheme of the battle arranged."
9628,He left college on this event and shaking off for a while his old friends he retired to the neighbourhood of his Diana and received all his consolation from her sweet voice and dearer caresses.
9629,"It will be thought that I should have entered more minutely, into the details of an occurrence by which and this is very true much new light might be thrown upon a highly interesting branch of physical philosophy."
9630,"But you now speak of ""mind"" and ""matter"" as do the metaphysicians."
9631,The impression was given with an accuracy truly marvellous.
9632,I shall ever bear about me a memory of the many solemn hours I thus spent alone with the master of the House of Usher.
9633,"The leaning, unpainted houses grew thicker, lined both sides of the road, and displayed more urban tendencies than did those we were leaving behind."
9634,"The first subject that occupied the attention of the house was an address from the Lord Protector, praying them to appoint a deputy during a necessary absence on his part."
9635,"There was another sound, too a kind of wholesale, colossal flopping or pattering which somehow called up images of the most detestable sort."
9636,No trace of the ancient gold with which Wilbur and Old Whateley always paid their debts has yet been discovered.
9637,"The noisy joy of the populace, the gaudy colours of their dress, the tumult of carriages and horses, the march of soldiers intermixed, the waving of banners and sound of martial music added to the high excitement of the scene; while round us reposed in solemn majesty the relics of antient time."
9638,"Were all the jewels of Golconda awaiting me upon my solution of this enigma, I am quite sure that I should be unable to earn them."""
9639,In a very few moments I again looked fixedly at the painting.
9640,"But then my plan must be laid with art; I would not be left destitute, I must secure some money."
9641,"""That was before my time before the new squire's time."
9642,"Sir John, an eccentrick Fellow, once declin'd to pay his part of the Reckoning for Supper, because 'twas his Custom at Home to eat no Supper."
9643,"Finally, all men saw that astronomical knowledge lied not, and they awaited the comet."
9644,"I have said that I was alarmed, yet to my soul nothing was more deadly than the material daylight world of New York, and whether this man were a harmless eccentric or a wielder of dangerous arts I had no choice save to follow him and slake my sense of wonder on whatever he might have to offer."
9645,"Free from unwarranted superstition though I am, these things produced in me an odd sensation, which was intensified by a pair of widely separated newspaper cuttings relating to deaths in the shunned house one from the Providence Gazette and Country Journal of April , , and the other from the Daily Transcript and Chronicle of October , each of which detailed an appallingly grisly circumstance whose duplication was remarkable."
9646,"I committed the remains of my lost Perdita to his care, for the purpose of having them transported to Hymettus, and placed in the cell her Raymond already occupied beneath the pyramid."
9647,Push carts crowded the gutters.
9648,"Of the various odd assemblages in The Street, the law said much but could prove little."
9649,"""He he he"" said the fellow, ""hu hu hu dat you can't do."""
9650,"And the houses of the cities of Cathuria are all palaces, each built over a fragrant canal bearing the waters of the sacred Narg."
9651,Perhaps you might do better.
9652,"Here have another drink I need one anyhow There's no use in my trying to tell you what they were like, because the awful, the blasphemous horror, and the unbelievable loathsomeness and moral foetor came from simple touches quite beyond the power of words to classify."
9653,All this time the sleeper waker remained exactly as I have last described him.
9654,"Evadne did not answer; her large dark eyes were cast down, at length a tear glimmered on the lashes."
9655,"I spoke; I told them to retire and consider of what had been said, that I would not lead them farther north if they strenuously desired the contrary, but that I hoped that, with reflection, their courage would return."
9656,"No one at Windsor would afford them shelter; so, going a little further up, they remained all night in a deserted hut near Bolter's lock."
9657,Only at the twelfth was the triumph complete.
9658,"Taking now a spade himself, and giving one to Jupiter and one to me, Legrand begged us to set about digging as quickly as possible."
9659,I have hitherto managed as well as I could without either.
9660,"I knew it could make no difference whether either of us held on at all; so I let him have the bolt, and went astern to the cask."
9661,"The young people, the Etonians, and children of the neighbouring gentry, held a mock fair, to which all the country people were invited."
9662,"Certainly, I look forward impatiently to the sight of that great silver key, for in its cryptical arabesques there may stand symbolised all the aims and mysteries of a blindly impersonal cosmos."
9663,"In the centre yawns a great open door, reached by an impressive flight of steps, and surrounded by exquisite carvings like the figures of Bacchanals in relief."
9664,"The Countess cast no look of kindness on my worn out frame, though afterwards she thanked me coldly for my attentions."
9665,In a short time I realised that I must tell my story to someone or break down completely.
9666,His complexion was absolutely bloodless.
9667,"It has been his terrible lot not to walk but to waddle to pass through life not like a human being, but like an elephant not like a man, but like a rhinoceros."
9668,Yet I am certainly unjust.
9669,"It could not have been less than five hundred miles, and was probably much more."
9670,"Upon the whole, I was sadly vexed and puzzled, but, at length, I concluded to make a virtue of necessity to dig with a good will, and thus the sooner to convince the visionary, by ocular demonstration, of the fallacy of the opinions he entertained."
9671,"For my own part, I should hold it not only as possible, but as very far more than probable, that Marie might have proceeded, at any given period, by any one of the many routes between her own residence and that of her aunt, without meeting a single individual whom she knew, or by whom she was known."
9672,Too well did I recall the squat church from which those notes came.
9673,Now an unlettered seaman felt the same thing whilst gazing at the terrible reality.
9674,"Heh, heh, heh then jest tell me, young feller, why Cap'n Obed an' twenty odd other folks used to row aout to Devil Reef in the dead o' night an' chant things so laoud ye cud hear 'em all over taown when the wind was right?"
9675,"Stalking across the room I cast a glance of contempt at the belligerents, and throwing open the sash to their extreme horror and disappointment, precipitated myself, very dexterously, from the window."
9676,"He was still sitting up in the bed listening; just as I have done, night after night, hearkening to the death watches in the wall."
9677,I told them my story they did not believe it.
9678,"""Have you,"" he said, ""really spent your time in studying such nonsense?"""
9679,"It was a piece of ""composition,"" in which the most fastidiously critical taste could scarcely have suggested an emendation."
9680,"They told me I had taken the wrong fork of the hill road the night before, and fallen over the cliffs at Orange Point; a thing they deduced from prints found in the snow."
9681,The old deserted Chapman house had inexplicably burned to an amorphous heap of ashes; that we could understand because of the upset lamp.
9682,Nor was it I alone who felt thus intimately his perfections.
9683,"The worst of this profession was, that I had to walk so much and so fast; and so frequently to vary my route."
9684,The whole house was blazing.
9685,"By the second day of the search the affair was fully treated by the newspapers, whose reporters overran Tempest Mountain."
9686,"Beaufort had saved but a very small sum of money from the wreck of his fortunes, but it was sufficient to provide him with sustenance for some months, and in the meantime he hoped to procure some respectable employment in a merchant's house."
9687,"""Having thus before us the whole philosophy of this subject, we can easily test by it the assertions of L'Etoile."
9688,She had never before looked so supremely lovely.
9689,"It was almost a public affair, for the dean had surely been a public benefactor."
9690,"He means to anticipate what he imagines would be an objection to his theory viz: that the body was kept on shore two days, suffering rapid decomposition more rapid than if immersed in water."
9691,"But the grooms there disclaim any title to the creature; which is strange, since he bears evident marks of having made a narrow escape from the flames."
9692,"It is clear, however, that it is as fully matter as before."
9693,The latter end is only pursued when it seems coincident with the former.
9694,"My spirits were elevated by the enchanting appearance of nature; the past was blotted from my memory, the present was tranquil, and the future gilded by bright rays of hope and anticipations of joy."""
9695,In Washington Street there was a row of four or five in excellent repair and with finely tended lawns and gardens.
9696,"This amendment was so obviously proper, that the House concurred in it nem."
9697,Certainly the town was not London.
9698,"Wilson, this is your property."""
9699,I called on him to stay.
9700,"These float, and serve all the purposes of a mere rope on land."
9701,"Entered both gentlemen in my Ledger, and opened a running account with each."
9702,"""The next morning I called for the snuff box, when we resumed, quite eagerly, the conversation of the preceding day."
9703,"Seizing the green jade object, we gave a last glance at the bleached and cavern eyed face of its owner and closed up the grave as we found it."
9704,"After a residence of about a year at Ulswater, Adrian visited London, and came back full of plans for our benefit."
9705,"I could not sustain the horror of my situation, and when I perceived that the popular voice and the countenances of the judges had already condemned my unhappy victim, I rushed out of the court in agony."
9706,The editor of L'Etoile had no right to be offended at M. Beauvais' unreasoning belief.
9707,"We walked nearer, and I saw that it must be five feet across, with walls a good foot thick and some six inches above the ground level solid work of the seventeenth century, or I was much mistaken."
9708,"I attracted my brother's attention by signs, pointed to the floating barrels that came near us, and did everything in my power to make him understand what I was about to do."
9709,Heigho when will any Invention visit the human pericranium?
9710,"With fonder regret than ever, he clung to his memory; and gave it in charge to his son, if ever he should meet this valued friend, in his name to bestow every succour, and to assure him that, to the last, his attachment survived separation and silence."
9711,"Birch, though dreading the bother of removal and interment, began his task of transference one disagreeable April morning, but ceased before noon because of a heavy rain that seemed to irritate his horse, after having laid but one mortal tenement to its permanent rest."
9712,"But it has been suggested that the corpse discovered, is not that of the Marie Rogêt for the conviction of whose assassin, or assassins, the reward is offered, and respecting whom, solely, our agreement has been arranged with the Prefect."
9713,But this half sentiment at no time amounted to conviction.
9714,"The laughter died away, when a well known and abhorred voice, apparently close to my ear, addressed me in an audible whisper, ""I am satisfied, miserable wretch You have determined to live, and I am satisfied."""
9715,Amidst this chaos of hollowness and unrest Carter tried to live as befitted a man of keen thought and good heritage.
9716,"She sought solitude, and avoided us when in gaiety and unrestrained affection we met in a family circle."
9717,His occasional use of the weapon did not enhance his popularity amongst the owners of canine guardians.
9718,I thought foolish wretch that it might be in my power to restore happiness to these deserving people.
9719,"Of the worst portion of the crimes committed, it is probable that he is innocent."
9720,"We also talked at length with such of the mountain mongrels as had not fled from the terror and confusion to remoter slopes, and arranged to precede our culminating task the exhaustive and definitive examination of the mansion in the light of its detailed history with an equally exhaustive and definitive examination of spots associated with the various tragedies of squatter legend."
9721,"No, my Raymond, my only beloved, sole possession of Perdita This night, this splendid assembly, these sumptuous apartments, and this adornment of your tearful girl, are all united to celebrate your abdication."
9722,"We called to mind the plague of , when it was calculated that a third of mankind had been destroyed."
9723,Come now that's a fine fellow.
9724,"Upon my twenty first birthday, the aged Pierre gave to me a family document which he said had for many generations been handed down from father to son, and continued by each possessor."
9725,"Reid, you know, had just taken up comparative pathology, and was full of pompous ""inside stuff"" about the biological or evolutionary significance of this or that mental or physical symptom."
9726,"I bought auction copies cheap of ""Lord Brougham's Speeches,"" ""Cobbett's Complete Works,"" the ""New Slang Syllabus,"" the ""Whole Art of Snubbing,"" ""Prentice's Billingsgate,"" folio edition, and ""Lewis G. Clarke on Tongue."""
9727,I was one day seated on the verge of the clump of pines when Woodville rode past.
9728,"""But soon,"" he cried with sad and solemn enthusiasm, ""I shall die, and what I now feel be no longer felt."
9729,CHAPTER I. HEAR YOU not the rushing sound of the coming tempest?
9730,"A few fishing vessels alone specked the water, and now and then the gentle breeze wafted the sound of voices as the fishermen called to one another."
9731,I said 'legitimate deductions;' but my meaning is not thus fully expressed.
9732,"Carriages and horses were provided for all; captains and under officers chosen, and the whole assemblage wisely organized."
9733,The tumult had ceased.
9734,"Of the doctrines themselves that is, of their falsity, or of their probability I say nothing."
9735,It is not impossible that he was wrong; but he would have convinced you of his being in the right; for he was a man of great eloquence.
9736,"He, the noble, the warlike, the great in every quality that can adorn the mind and person of man; he is fitted to be the Protector of England."
9737,"The time will soon come; grief and famine have already sapped the foundations of my being; a very short time, and I shall have passed away; unstained by the crime of self destruction, unstung by the memory of degradation, my spirit will throw aside the miserable coil, and find such recompense as fortitude and resignation may deserve."
9738,"My first resolution was to quit Geneva forever; my country, which, when I was happy and beloved, was dear to me, now, in my adversity, became hateful."
9739,"The whole face finally began to grow tense, and the head turned restlessly with closed eyes."
9740,"The project, at the desire of Mr. Osborne, was kept a profound secret from the public the only persons entrusted with the design being those actually engaged in the construction of the machine, which was built under the superintendence of Mr. Mason, Mr. Holland, Sir Everard Bringhurst, and Mr. Osborne, at the seat of the latter gentleman near Penstruthal, in Wales."
9741,"In this mood of mind I betook myself to the mathematics and the branches of study appertaining to that science as being built upon secure foundations, and so worthy of my consideration."
9742,The spirit of gaiety was eclipsed; the music ceased; the young people left their occupations and gathered together.
9743,"After that I recall running, spade in hand; a hideous run across moon litten, mound marked meadows and through diseased, precipitous abysses of haunted hillside forest; leaping, screaming, panting, bounding toward the terrible Martense mansion."
9744,I gave my assent to her request; and she left me.
9745,"I smiled with quiet joy; and in my thoughts, which through long habit would for ever connect themselves into one train, as if I shaped them into words, I thus addressed the scene before me: ""I salute thee, beautiful Sun, and thou, white Earth, fair and cold Perhaps I shall never see thee again covered with green, and the sweet flowers of the coming spring will blossom on my grave."
9746,He's the beatin'est boy fer runnin' off in the woods I ever see; haff the time a settin' moonin' raound that snake den in the upper timber lot . . .
9747,"And in the later watches of the night, when I went within the tower, I saw on the wall a calendar which still remained as when I had left it at the hour I sailed away."
9748,"D Lord Byron CHAPTER V Nearly a year had past since my father's return, and the seasons had almost finished their round It was now the end of May; the woods were clothed in their freshest verdure, and the sweet smell of the new mown grass was in the fields."
9749,"""Will the Baron join us in a hunting of the boar?"" ""Metzengerstein does not hunt;"" ""Metzengerstein will not attend,"" were the haughty and laconic answers."
9750,"During this interval, one of the servants, happening to examine the apparel she had worn on the night of the murder, had discovered in her pocket the picture of my mother, which had been judged to be the temptation of the murderer."
9751,"No, it could not possibly be repaired that night, nor was there any other way of getting transportation out of Innsmouth, either to Arkham or elsewhere."
9752,"The poorer nobility hailed the return of sovereignty, as an event which would restore them to their power and rights, now lost."
9753,But his limbs were rigid his lips were livid his lately beaming eyes were riveted in death.
9754,"Persons who are narrating facts, are seldom so particular as Mr. Kissam seems to be, about day and date and precise location."
9755,"""Amontillado"" ""As you are engaged, I am on my way to Luchesi."
9756,"He believed that his great secret knowledge of gods could shield him from their wrath, so resolved to go up to the summit of high and rocky Hatheg Kla on a night when he knew the gods would be there."
9757,For this the unreasonable villains clapped me into jail; and the gentlemen of the Eye Sore trade could not well avoid cutting my connection when I came out.
9758,"Alas I regret that I am taken from you; and, happy and beloved as I have been, is it not hard to quit you all?"
9759,The main building was about twenty four feet long and sixteen broad certainly not more.
9760,I wish I could believe that doctor.
9761,"It was not what I heard, but what I saw; for in that dark, locked, shuttered, and curtained room there appeared from the black northeast corner a shaft of horrible red gold light a shaft which bore with it no glow to disperse the darkness, but which streamed only upon the recumbent head of the troubled sleeper, bringing out in hideous duplication the luminous and strangely youthful memory face as I had known it in dreams of abysmal space and unshackled time, when my friend had pushed behind the barrier to those secret, innermost, and forbidden caverns of nightmare."
9762,"Felix soon learned that the treacherous Turk, for whom he and his family endured such unheard of oppression, on discovering that his deliverer was thus reduced to poverty and ruin, became a traitor to good feeling and honour and had quitted Italy with his daughter, insultingly sending Felix a pittance of money to aid him, as he said, in some plan of future maintenance."
9763,"What I did was to faint silently away, just as I had done in that brier choked railway cut a year before."
9764,The Earl of Windsor became a volunteer under his friend.
9765,"Did any one indeed exist, except I, the creator, who would believe, unless his senses convinced him, in the existence of the living monument of presumption and rash ignorance which I had let loose upon the world?"
9766,"Here, in imitation of Malibran, she modified the original phrase of Bellini, so as to let her voice descend to the tenor G, when, by a rapid transition, she struck the G above the treble stave, springing over an interval of two octaves."
9767,"I had before experienced sensations of horror, and I have endeavoured to bestow upon them adequate expressions, but words cannot convey an idea of the heart sickening despair that I then endured."
9768,"Getting upon the sacking of the bedstead, I looked over the head board minutely at the second casement."
9769,"I was very glad of this partial shelter, since at this point the Rowley road was uncomfortably near according to my window view."
9770,"I am now going to claim the protection of some friends, whom I sincerely love, and of whose favour I have some hopes.' ""'Are they Germans?' ""'No, they are French."
9771,"Shall I say you will be there?"""
9772,"I closed my eyes to concentrate my thoughts more profoundly, and was rewarded by the positive knowledge that my long sought mental message had come at last."
9773,"Her sympathy was ours; her smile, her soft voice, the sweet glance of her celestial eyes, were ever there to bless and animate us."
9774,"I now thought it possible that the coating of dirt might have something to do with the failure; so I carefully rinsed the parchment by pouring warm water over it, and, having done this, I placed it in a tin pan, with the skull downwards, and put the pan upon a furnace of lighted charcoal."
9775,"""Several changes of day and night passed, and the orb of night had greatly lessened, when I began to distinguish my sensations from each other."
9776,"He might have been fifteen or fifty, and was twenty one years and seven months."
9777,She joined the hands of Elizabeth and myself.
9778,"Dr. Whipple was a sane, conservative physician of the old school, and for all his interest in the place was not eager to encourage young thoughts toward the abnormal."
9779,"The feeble and decrepid fled; the warriors retreated, though they threatened even in flight."
9780,"Her rigging, build, and general equipment, all negative a supposition of this kind."
9781,Clerval spent the last evening with us.
9782,"The passengers were, consequently, in high spirits and disposed to be social."
9783,"It was level, and covered with fine hard gravel."
9784,We carried the thing down to the laboratory listening.
9785,"The wind, which had fallen in the south, now rose with great violence in the west."
9786,"To be worthy of her, to raise myself to her height through the exertion of talents and virtue, to repay her love with devoted, unwearied tenderness, were the only thanks I could offer for the matchless gift."
9787,"I saw, in fine, that he would be driven, as a matter of course, to simplicity, if not deliberately induced to it as a matter of choice."
9788,"The bolt held, of course, and I heard the floor creak as the prowler left the room."
9789,"The house was a four story one, with garrets mansardes."
9790,His business is of importance and concerns the lady herself.
9791,Shameful debaucheries flagrant treacheries unheard of atrocities gave his trembling vassals quickly to understand that no servile submission on their part no punctilios of conscience on his own were thenceforward to prove any security against the remorseless fangs of a petty Caligula.
9792,"All was gold of antique date and of great variety French, Spanish, and German money, with a few English guineas, and some counters, of which we had never seen specimens before."
9793,"Youths, nobles of the land, performed for the sake of mother or sister, the services of menials with amiable cheerfulness."
9794,"She rose on seeing us enter, and when we were left alone with her, she threw herself at the feet of Elizabeth, weeping bitterly."
9795,"My acquaintance with Ritzner commenced at the magnificent Château Jung, into which a train of droll adventures, not to be made public, threw a place in his regard, and here, with somewhat more difficulty, a partial insight into his mental conformation."
9796,"Wilcox still lived alone in the Fleur de Lys Building in Thomas Street, a hideous Victorian imitation of seventeenth century Breton architecture which flaunts its stuccoed front amidst the lovely colonial houses on the ancient hill, and under the very shadow of the finest Georgian steeple in America."
9797,"You were not to be found, and I was fearful of losing a bargain."""
9798,"The apparition spoke of the curse which had hovered over my house, told me of my coming end, dwelt on the wrong perpetrated by my ancestor against old Michel Mauvais, and gloated over the revenge of Charles Le Sorcier."
9799,"Sweet and beloved Elizabeth I read and reread her letter, and some softened feelings stole into my heart and dared to whisper paradisiacal dreams of love and joy; but the apple was already eaten, and the angel's arm bared to drive me from all hope."
9800,"Felix replied in a cheerful accent, and the old man was recommencing his music when someone tapped at the door."
9801,"She called to mind how often he had declared that solitude was to him the greatest of all evils, and how death itself was to him more full of fear and pain when he pictured to himself a lonely grave."
9802,"The balloon was unusually steady, and looked beautifully."
9803,"At noon he lunched at the University Spa, picking up a paper from the next seat as he waited for dessert."
9804,"""Yes, yes,"" I said, ""yes, yes."" ""You?"
9805,"Is it not indeed, possible that, while a high order of genius is necessarily ambitious, the highest is above that which is termed ambition?"
9806,"Adieu, my dear Margaret."
9807,Her cheek was flushed by the expectation of struggle; her eyes sparkled with the hope of triumph.
9808,Would a number of men have so dragged a corpse at all as to have left evident traces of the dragging?
9809,"The ancient rails were very slight, and placed so close together as to be, according to modern notions, quite frivolous, if not dangerous in the extreme."
9810,"Let us rather go out to meet it gallantly: or perhaps for all this pendulous orb, this fair gem in the sky's diadem, is not surely plague striken perhaps, in some secluded nook, amidst eternal spring, and waving trees, and purling streams, we may find Life."
9811,Yes the odour was the same as that which had sickened him at the Whateley farmhouse less than three years before.
9812,"I had reached the conclusion, it will be remembered, that the extra baggage of my friend, the artist, would prove to be pictures, or at least a picture; for I knew he had been for several weeks in conference with Nicolino: and now here was a box, which, from its shape, could possibly contain nothing in the world but a copy of Leonardo's ""Last Supper;"" and a copy of this very ""Last Supper,"" done by Rubini the younger, at Florence, I had known, for some time, to be in the possession of Nicolino."
9813,Such invitations became less cordial less frequent in time they ceased altogether.
9814,"With its emissaries, the name of Dupin had grown into a household word."
9815,"He even says that all the village knew of my journeys to the tomb, and that I was often watched as I slept in the bower outside the grim facade, my half open eyes fixed on the crevice that leads to the interior."
9816,"And I looked upon the characters of the rock, and they were changed; and the characters were SILENCE."
9817,West had never fully succeeded because he had never been able to secure a corpse sufficiently fresh.
9818,I shall no longer see the sun or stars or feel the winds play on my cheeks.
9819,"Every day some new scene occured and displayed in him a mind working as it were with an unknown horror that now he could master but which at times threatened to overturn his reason, and to throw the bright seat of his intelligence into a perpetual chaos."
9820,"""When I reflect, my dear cousin,"" said she, ""on the miserable death of Justine Moritz, I no longer see the world and its works as they before appeared to me."
9821,"But his understanding, his charity, his virtues, want a field for exercise and display; and we will procure it for him."
9822,"This enabled me to see perpendicularly down, but having found it impossible to place any similar contrivance overhead, on account of the peculiar manner of closing up the opening there, and the consequent wrinkles in the cloth, I could expect to see no objects situated directly in my zenith."
9823,"On August I effected an exit from the U , and laboriously made my way through the ruined and mud choked streets to the ancient river."
9824,This was in truth a very droll little somebody.
9825,"And in most of the palaces the floors were mosaics of beryl and lapis lazuli and sardonyx and carbuncle and other choice materials, so disposed that the beholder might fancy himself walking over beds of the rarest flowers."
9826,Nothing new rewarded my efforts only the same depressing mustiness and faint suggestions of noxious odours and nitrous outlines on the floor and I fancy that many pedestrians must have watched me curiously through the broken panes.
9827,"These phenomena were occasioned by the expansion of the gas, through increase of heat in the atmosphere, and the consequent disruption of the minute particles of ice with which the network had become encrusted during the night."
9828,"The frigidity of the apartment was now sensibly diminishing, and at about a.m. the doctor retired to the bathroom, commanding me to keep him supplied with all the ice I could obtain at all night drug stores and cafeterias."
9829,"Whatever may be said against the abuses of the artificial landscape gardening, a mixture of pure art in a garden scene, adds to it a great beauty."
9830,"Its construction, over a century and a half ago, had followed the grading and straightening of the road in that especial vicinity; for Benefit Street at first called Back Street was laid out as a lane winding amongst the graveyards of the first settlers, and straightened only when the removal of the bodies to the North Burial Ground made it decently possible to cut through the old family plots."
9831,"She felt as if during her past calm she had dreamed, but was now awake; she was As one In some lone watch tower on the deep, awakened From soothing visions of the home he loves, Trembling to hear the wrathful billows roar; as one who has been cradled by a storm, and awakes to find the vessel sinking."
9832,But the thing was now going too far.
9833,"The next spring no more pale grass and strange weeds came up in the shunned house's terraced garden, and shortly afterward Carrington Harris rented the place."
9834,"But these other apartments were densely crowded, and in them beat feverishly the heart of life."
9835,Who indeed would think of compassioning a shadow?
9836,"Suddenly out of the blackness the madly sawing bow struck me, and I knew I was close to the player."
9837,"Mercy should have known better than to hire anyone from the Nooseneck Hill country, for that remote bit of backwoods was then, as now, a seat of the most uncomfortable superstitions."
9838,"No, I don't know what's become of Pickman, and I don't like to guess."
9839,"Old Michel was said to have burnt his wife alive as a sacrifice to the Devil, and the unaccountable disappearances of many small peasant children were laid at the dreaded door of these two."
9840,"With a few rapid lateral passes I made the lids quiver, as in incipient sleep, and with a few more I closed them altogether."
9841,"I recall many things of Sam Johnson and his Club, having kept up my Membership in the Latter long after the Doctor's Death, at which I sincerely mourn'd."
9842,"On each of the hips, deep set in a kind of pinkish, ciliated orbit, was what seemed to be a rudimentary eye; whilst in lieu of a tail there depended a kind of trunk or feeler with purple annular markings, and with many evidences of being an undeveloped mouth or throat."
9843,I knew that it was possible that your suspicions might be excited; but I trusted that my simple word would cause them to disappear.
9844,"I never feel alone or comfortable, and a hideous sense of pursuit sometimes comes chillingly on me when I am weary."
9845,Could there be guilt in it?
9846,"I jumped into the boat, and well accustomed to such feats, I pushed it from shore, and exerted all my strength to row swiftly across."
9847,It is needless to say that I felt inexpressibly alarmed.
9848,I perceive you have an engagement.
9849,"Verney, you will acknowledge this tie, and as my brother's friend, I feel that I may trust you."""
9850,"He was no longer bent to the ground, like an over nursed flower of spring, that, shooting up beyond its strength, is weighed down even by its own coronal of blossoms."
9851,"""Allow me, mon ami,"" now said Monsieur Maillard, addressing myself, ""allow me to send you a morsel of this veal a la St. Menhoult you will find it particularly fine."""
9852,"A short month has destroyed a village, and where in May the first person sickened, in June the paths were deformed by unburied corpses the houses tenantless, no smoke arising from the chimneys; and the housewife's clock marked only the hour when death had been triumphant."
9853,"We neglected all care of the ship, as worse than useless, and securing ourselves, as well as possible, to the stump of the mizen mast, looked out bitterly into the world of ocean."
9854,Let us close this casement; the air is chilling and dangerous to your frame.
9855,"In securing solicitously an unobserved retreat in case of failure, Raymond had forgotten to arrange the mode by which she was to hear of his success; and she had been too much agitated to revert to this circumstance."
9856,"With earnest gaze she looked on the labyrinth of smoking piles which had been a city, and then expressed her readiness to return home."
9857,"Its size was very great, and seemed the greater because of its extraordinary bareness and neglect."
9858,The discoloration of ages had been great.
9859,"Then he fled back to the lodge and broke all the rules of his calling by rousing and shaking his patient, and hurling at him a succession of shuddering whispers that seared into the bewildered ears like the hissing of vitriol."
9860,"""What the devil's the matter now"" said a second."
9861,"From its queenly possessor La Bellissima, to the Duc De L'Omelette, six peers of the empire conveyed the happy bird."
9862,Slowly with a tortoise gradation approached the faint gray dawn of the psychal day.
9863,"On the uttermost of the steps which led down into the dread chamber was a large fragment of the coffin, with which, it seemed, that she had endeavored to arrest attention by striking the iron door."
9864,"The men filled the mosques; the women, veiled, hastened to the tombs, and carried offerings to the dead, thus to preserve the living."
9865,"Passing my hand down behind the board, I readily discovered and pressed the spring, which was, as I had supposed, identical in character with its neighbor."
9866,"The Whateleys had received their visitors with ill concealed distaste, though they did not dare court further publicity by a violent resistance or refusal to talk."
9867,"The noise was, at length, very effectually silenced by Jupiter, who, getting out of the hole with a dogged air of deliberation, tied the brute's mouth up with one of his suspenders, and then returned, with a grave chuckle, to his task."
9868,"I had before visited the manor houses and gentlemen's seats, and often found the inhabitants actuated by the purest benevolence, ready to lend their utmost aid for the welfare of their tenants."
9869,"He walked on first, carrying a part of the fishing tackle, and his companions followed him at some distance."
9870,After a few more passes.
9871,"His drinking, of course, only aggravated what it was meant to alleviate."
9872,This had been the secret of his secession at the time of Lord Raymond's election.
9873,In fact nothing could well be more simple more utterly unpretending than this cottage.
9874,"Others knew, but did not dare to tell there is no public hint of why they whispered about the lock on the door to the attic stairs in the house of a childless, broken, embittered old man who had put up a blank slate slab by an avoided grave, although one may trace enough evasive legends to curdle the thinnest blood."
9875,"The letter, having been published, gave rise to a variety of gossip and opinion."
9876,"""But Paradise Lost excited different and far deeper emotions."
9877,"""Surprisingly beautiful"" exclaimed a second."
9878,"He would talk in a cheerful accent, with an expression of goodness that bestowed pleasure even upon me."
9879,In my own heart there dwells no faith in præter nature.
9880,"To be present at the election of a Protector, and to give our yea or nay for his shuffling Grace of ? or for that noisy Ryland?"
9881,She was no longer that happy creature who in earlier youth wandered with me on the banks of the lake and talked with ecstasy of our future prospects.
9882,"It was, however, the only book immediately at hand; and I indulged a vague hope that the excitement which now agitated the hypochondriac, might find relief for the history of mental disorder is full of similar anomalies even in the extremeness of the folly which I should read."
9883,"Man, no longer with an appetite for sympathy, clothed his thoughts in visible signs; nor were there any readers left: while each one, having thrown away his sword with opposing shield alone, awaited the plague, Merrival talked of the state of mankind six thousand years hence."
9884,"The name is Bedlo with an e, all the world over, and I never knew it to be spelt otherwise in my life."""
9885,"They have come to form a race by themselves, with the well defined mental and physical stigmata of degeneracy and inbreeding."
9886,"But he was ardent and tender of heart beyond the common nature of man, and had already learnt to love, while the beauteous Greek smiled benignantly on the boy."
9887,I discarded my medical books.
9888,This stream is regulated by the flux and reflux of the sea it being constantly high and low water every six hours.
9889,Even now my blood boils at the recollection of this injustice.
9890,"There was no longer the faintest sign of vitality in M. Valdemar; and concluding him to be dead, we were consigning him to the charge of the nurses, when a strong vibratory motion was observable in the tongue."
9891,It had become fiendishly disgusting by the time he disappeared; many of the experiments could not even be hinted at in print.
9892,This associate is of swarthy complexion.
9893,"A few moves having been made, no step is certain."
9894,"Disliking the sight, I turned away and entered the chamber beyond the Gothic door."
9895,At length they emerged on a muddy road to find the sun coming out.
9896,"The Countess again came to her daughter's bedside: ""In Austria at least,"" she said, ""you will obey."
9897,"We had birds, gold fish, a fine dog, rabbits, a small monkey, and a cat."
9898,"I cannot speak longer, for the body of Joe Slater grows cold and rigid, and the coarse brains are ceasing to vibrate as I wish."
9899,Hey? Did anybody ever see hide or hair o' Hiram Gilman agin?
9900,The worm had food no more.
9901,But even human sympathies were not sufficient to satisfy his eager mind.
9902,"Our Lazzeroni bore flaring torches, which shone red, and almost dusky, in the murky subterranean passages, whose darkness thirstily surrounding them, seemed eager to imbibe more and more of the element of light."
9903,"""I need scarcely tell you,"" said Dupin, as he finished the perusal of my notes, ""that this is a far more intricate case than that of the Rue Morgue; from which it differs in one important respect."
9904,"""Common affection might have been satisfied with common usages."
9905,"Water Street was almost its duplicate, save that there were great seaward gaps where wharves had been."
9906,"Through joy and through sorrow, I wrote."
9907,"He has thought it sagacious to echo the small talk of the lawyers, who, for the most part, content themselves with echoing the rectangular precepts of the courts."
9908,"The doors again close, the magician resumes his original position, and the drawer opens to return the medallion."
9909,"In the one case, the retarding force is momentary and complete within itself in the other it is endlessly accumulative."
9910,"In the multiform and multicolor of the flowers and the trees, he recognised the most direct and energetic efforts of Nature at physical loveliness."
9911,"""Superb physiologist"" said the Westminster."
9912,Iä Shub Niggurath As a foulness shall ye know Them.
9913,In obedience to my request Perdita detailed the melancholy circumstances that led to this event.
9914,I read and studied the wild fancies of these writers with delight; they appeared to me treasures known to few besides myself.
9915,"Immediately afterward Jermyn emerged from the room, rushing frantically toward the front of the house as if pursued by some hideous enemy."
9916,"He seemed incapable of conceiving of the full extent of the power that selfishness vice possesses in the world: when I knew him, although he had suffered disappointment in his dearest hopes, he had not experienced any that arose from the meaness and self love of men: his station was too high to allow of his suffering through their hardheartedness; and too low for him to have experienced ingratitude and encroaching selfishness: it is one of the blessings of a moderate fortune, that by preventing the possessor from confering pecuniary favours it prevents him also from diving into the arcana of human weakness or malice To bestow on your fellow men is a Godlike attribute So indeed it is and as such not one fit for mortality; the giver like Adam and Prometheus, must pay the penalty of rising above his nature by being the martyr to his own excellence."
9917,"In an instant I dragged him to the floor, and pulled the heavy bed over him."
9918,"It was bound in leather with metal fittings, and was in an excellent state of preservation; being altogether an unusual sort of volume to encounter in an abode so lowly."
9919,"""He is safe"" said Idris, as he leapt on shore, and waved the bough over his head in token of success; ""we will wait for him here."""
9920,"They filed out of the house with a jerky tread, and as I watched them go I had an odd idea that they were turning toward the ancient cemetery on which the back of the house abutted."
9921,"Was it not enough that we must die, but toil must be added?"
9922,"The person of whom I speak seemed born for the purpose of foreshadowing the doctrines of Turgot, Price, Priestley, and Condorcet of exemplifying by individual instance what has been deemed the chimera of the perfectionists."
9923,"When he perceived that the latch was hopelessly unyielding, at least to such meagre tools and under such tenebrous conditions as these, Birch glanced about for other possible points of escape."
9924,You might as well note down a few while I read them to you.
9925,"but, stay you shall."""
9926,"Well, don't worry, my friend, for they are coming. . . ."
9927,"He was evidently given to working or lounging around the fish docks, and carried with him much of their characteristic smell."
9928,"""I let myself down to the ledge, and found that it was impossible to retain a seat upon it except in one particular position."
9929,"We had been sitting in the dark, and Dupin now arose for the purpose of lighting a lamp, but sat down again, without doing so, upon G.'s saying that he had called to consult us, or rather to ask the opinion of my friend, about some official business which had occasioned a great deal of trouble."
9930,"We rested until two, and had supper; starting for the hills immediately afterwards, armed with three stout sacks, which, by good luck, were upon the premises."
9931,"Or it might have been that he neglected to become either, merely in pursuance of his idea that in contempt of ambition is to be found one of the essential principles of happiness on earth."
9932,"A step approached her bed, she dared not move, she strove to calm her palpitations, which became more violent, when she heard her mother say mutteringly, ""Pretty simpleton, little do you think that your game is already at an end for ever."""
9933,"A thousand times would I have shed my own blood, drop by drop, to have saved their lives; but I could not, my father, indeed I could not sacrifice the whole human race."""
9934,"It may therefore be judged indecent in me to come forward on this occasion, but when I see a fellow creature about to perish through the cowardice of her pretended friends, I wish to be allowed to speak, that I may say what I know of her character."
9935,"She replied with earnestness, ""I do not refuse to believe you, Raymond; on the contrary I promise to put implicit faith in your simple word."
9936,"You, I conceive, would be tickled by a better sight of sartain other years than your fancy affords you; so be pleased to hold back any fright at what I design to shew."
9937,"I gathered enough, however, to know that it was astonished at my wishing to remain alive under such circumstances."
9938,They resolved to leave means neither of ingress or egress to the sudden impulses of despair or of frenzy from within.
9939,"When, in an article entitled ""The Murders in the Rue Morgue,"" I endeavored, about a year ago, to depict some very remarkable features in the mental character of my friend, the Chevalier C. Auguste Dupin, it did not occur to me that I should ever resume the subject."
9940,"Some distance away the lifeless body of Juan Romero lay upon a table, surrounded by a group of men, including the camp doctor."
9941,"I concluded, however, to speak to him once more, and merely repeated my previous question."
9942,"It was no joke tracking down something as big as a house that one could not see, but that had all the vicious malevolence of a daemon."
9943,"And again she heard, ""She will not wake till late to morrow, and we shall then be at sea."" ""All is ready,"" at length the woman announced."
9944,I took the hand of Elizabeth.
9945,"Some secrets of inner earth are not good for mankind, and this seemed to me one of them."
9946,Half insanely I spoke to the dead.
9947,"He foresaw that his own life would be one of struggle, and I must partake his labours with him."
9948,"They kept better watch; I was taken, and sent to prison."
9949,"He made no explanations to Hartwell, but in his calmer moments spoke of the imperative need of a long conference with Rice and Morgan."
9950,"Wordsworth's ""Tintern Abbey""."
9951,"But I saw the dimness was only that of contrast, and that the waves from the machine had no effect whatever."
9952,"Gilman felt a gnawing, poignant abhorrence shoot through his mental and emotional paralysis, and the light metal bowl shook in his grasp."
9953,"Their appearance especially those staring, unwinking eyes which one never saw shut was certainly shocking enough; and their voices were disgusting."
9954,Armitage produced a pocket telescope of considerable power and scanned the steep green side of the hill.
9955,Its whole style differed materially from that of Legrand.
9956,"Luckily, the sole fastenings of the lid consisted of two sliding bolts."
9957,"The fresh air revived me, and with renewed determination I approached the door of their cottage."
9958,"Nations, bordering on the already infected countries, began to enter upon serious plans for the better keeping out of the enemy."
9959,"Scarcely had I secured myself in my new position, when we gave a wild lurch to starboard, and rushed headlong into the abyss."
9960,"I might have deceived you; I might have talked of remaining here only a few months; in your anxiety to reach Windsor you would have left me, and without reproach or contention, I might have pursued my plan."
9961,"There is something terribly appalling in our situation, yet my courage and hopes do not desert me."
9962,"The grocery way only think of that I resolved to be off forthwith, and try and establish myself in some decent occupation, without dancing attendance any longer upon the caprices of these eccentric old people, and running the risk of being made a genius of in the end."
9963,"Her unhappiness assumed every day a new shape; every day some unexpected event seemed to close, while in fact it led onward, the train of calamities which now befell her."
9964,"It was the faces, Eliot, those accursed faces, that leered and slavered out of the canvas with the very breath of life By God, man, I verily believe they were alive That nauseous wizard had waked the fires of hell in pigment, and his brush had been a nightmare spawning wand."
9965,"The passage, which at first scarcely admitted us, quickly grew narrower and lower; we were almost bent double; yet still we persisted in making our way through it."
9966,"D , at Vienna once, did me an evil turn, which I told him, quite good humoredly, that I should remember."
9967,"I merely wish you to bear in mind that, with myself, it was sufficiently forcible to give a definite form a certain tendency to my inquiries in the chamber."
9968,"At first I could only afford to feed them upon mice which are cheap, but they fulfilled the scriptural injunction at so marvellous a rate, that I at length considered it my best policy to be liberal, and so indulged them in oysters and turtle."
9969,"As I could not pass through the town, I was obliged to cross the lake in a boat to arrive at Plainpalais."
9970,"The reason why Arthur Jermyn's charred fragments were not collected and buried lies in what was found afterward, principally the thing in the box."
9971,"Then, amidst the dismal moans from the stable and the daemoniac piping of late whippoorwills in the glen, Selina Frye tottered to the telephone and spread what news she could of the second phase of the horror."
9972,"My rage was without bounds; I sprang on him, impelled by all the feelings which can arm one being against the existence of another."
9973,"The entire absence of ocean or sea, and indeed of any lake or river, or body of water whatsoever, struck me, at first glance, as the most extraordinary feature in its geological condition."
9974,"She has her little eccentricities, to be sure but then, you know, all old women all very old women are more or less eccentric"" ""To be sure,"" said I, ""to be sure and then the rest of these ladies and gentlemen "" ""Are my friends and keepers,"" interupted Monsieur Maillard, drawing himself up with hauteur, ""my very good friends and assistants."""
9975,"Now this, I reflected, was no very extraordinary distance."
9976,"I strained my sight to discover what it could be and uttered a wild cry of ecstasy when I distinguished a sledge and the distorted proportions of a well known form within. Oh With what a burning gush did hope revisit my heart Warm tears filled my eyes, which I hastily wiped away, that they might not intercept the view I had of the daemon; but still my sight was dimmed by the burning drops, until, giving way to the emotions that oppressed me, I wept aloud."
9977,"I knew that Pompey was beneath my feet, and that Diana was sitting, according to my explicit directions, upon her hind legs, in the farthest corner of the room."
9978,Now it is agreed by all the distant relatives of Randolph Carter that something occurred to heighten his imagination in his tenth year.
9979,"By undue profundity we perplex and enfeeble thought; and it is possible to make even Venus herself vanish from the firmanent by a scrutiny too sustained, too concentrated, or too direct."
9980,The loss of the eye was not so much as the insolent air of independence and contempt with which it regarded me after it was out.
9981,"At such times the king, in his enthusiasm for him, would come to his relief, and then kindly take his friend to task; my father gave the best promises for amendment, but his social disposition, his craving for the usual diet of admiration, and more than all, the fiend of gambling, which fully possessed him, made his good resolutions transient, his promises vain."
9982,"Attend, O reader while I narrate this tale of wonders One day as Adrian and Idris were riding through the forest, with their mother and accustomed companions, Idris, drawing her brother aside from the rest of the cavalcade, suddenly asked him, ""What had become of his friend, Lionel Verney?"" ""Even from this spot,"" replied Adrian, pointing to my sister's cottage, ""you can see his dwelling."""
9983,"Between then and the next January we secured three more; one total failure, one case of marked muscular motion, and one rather shivery thing it rose of itself and uttered a sound."
9984,"Near the central desk a revolver had fallen, a dented but undischarged cartridge later explaining why it had not been fired."
9985,"By the time he had reached the bridge over the Miskatonic he was in a cold perspiration, and he clutched at the iron railing as he gazed upstream at the ill regarded island whose regular lines of ancient standing stones brooded sullenly in the afternoon sunlight."
9986,"She sat upon the ground absorbed in wordless despair, when through the gusty wind and bickering rain she thought she heard her name called."
9987,"And while I thus spoke, did there not cross your mind some thought of the physical power of words?"
9988,"As it drew nearer I observed that it was the Swiss diligence; it stopped just where I was standing, and on the door being opened, I perceived Henry Clerval, who, on seeing me, instantly sprung out."
9989,He endeavoured to soothe me as a nurse does a child and reverted to my tale as the effects of delirium.
9990,"Keep still"" The combined shock of the revelation and of the abrupt command gave me a kind of paralysis, and in my terror my mind again opened to the impressions coming from what Tillinghast called ""beyond""."
9991,Men who before this change seemed to have been hid in caves dispersed themselves and were employed in various arts of cultivation.
9992,"I strove to quiet the eager dancing of my heart; I turned from her my eyes, beaming with too much tenderness, and proudly, to dark night, and the inclement atmosphere, murmured the expressions of my transport."
9993,"""I fear, my beloved girl,"" I said, ""little happiness remains for us on earth; yet all that I may one day enjoy is centred in you."
9994,"Ever yours, WILLIAM LEGRAND."
9995,"These were mostly well back from the water, and one or two seemed to be in moderately sound condition."
9996,"Professor Ellery found platinum, iron, and tellurium in the strange alloy; but mixed with these were at least three other apparent elements of high atomic weight which chemistry was absolutely powerless to classify."
9997,"In the second place, it impressed me I fear, indeed, that it will be impossible to make myself comprehended as gelatinous or glutinous matters impress the sense of touch."
9998,"When he had in some measure recovered, I removed him to my own cabin and attended on him as much as my duty would permit."
