9999,"Do you know, however,"" continued he musingly, ""that at Sparta which is now Palæ; ochori, at Sparta, I say, to the west of the citadel, among a chaos of scarcely visible ruins, is a kind of socle, upon which are still legible the letters AAEM."
10000,"Frequently he would glance at the door as if he expected someone, and at length his glance seemed answered by a singular rapping which must have followed some very ancient and secret code."
10001,"The strange and romantic scheme of her mother, might confirm and perpetuate the painful view of life, which had intruded itself thus early on her contemplation."
10002,He is appalled by what lies motionless before him.
10003,"He endeavoured to guide with prudence the steeds of destiny through the devious road which he had chosen, and bent all his efforts the better to conceal what he could not alter."
10004,"""The balloon, then, had actually burst"" These were the first tumultuous ideas that hurried through my mind: ""The balloon had positively burst I was falling falling with the most impetuous, the most unparalleled velocity To judge by the immense distance already so quickly passed over, it could not be more than ten minutes, at the farthest, before I should meet the surface of the earth, and be hurled into annihilation"" But at length reflection came to my relief."
10005,"The cries were shocking; and as I stood in the brilliant apartment alone and dazed, listening to their vanishing echoes, I trembled at the thought of what might be lurking near me unseen."
10006,At any rate he kicked and squirmed frantically and automatically whilst his consciousness was almost eclipsed in a half swoon.
10007,We were strolling one night down a long dirty street in the vicinity of the Palais Royal.
10008,"I searched my pockets, hoping to find an old letter, when my hand fell upon the parchment."
10009,In the meantime the cat slowly recovered.
10010,"No doubt it had become out of order, like so many other things in this decrepit edifice."
10011,"She grieved for the loss of Raymond with an anguish, that exiled all smile from her lips, and trenched sad lines on her brow of beauty."
10012,"And as the muffled thunder clattered, those eyes still stared with vacuous viciousness."
10013,"His ears were growing sensitive to a preternatural and intolerable degree, and he had long ago stopped the cheap mantel clock whose ticking had come to seem like a thunder of artillery."
10014,"""My friend, no; I will not impose upon your good nature."
10015,Thoughts of the police and of the mad Italian both weighed heavily.
10016,A sudden break was made in the routine of our lives.
10017,Did all of this perilous sense of imminence come from the formulae on the sheets he covered day by day?
10018,"The tints of the green carpet deepened; and when, one by one, the white daisies shrank away, there sprang up in place of them, ten by ten of the ruby red asphodel."
10019,"In sleep waking, the reasoning and its conclusion the cause and its effect are present together."
10020,A servant in Geneva does not mean the same thing as a servant in France and England.
10021,"He was just dizzy and careless enough to annoy his sensitive horse, which as he drew it viciously up at the tomb neighed and pawed and tossed its head, much as on that former occasion when the rain had vexed it."
10022,"The castle walls, and long familiar trees, did not hear the parting sound of our carriage wheels with regret."
10023,"Death is merciful, for there is no return therefrom, but with him who has come back out of the nethermost chambers of night, haggard and knowing, peace rests nevermore."
10024,Only these nothing more.
10025,"The younger seaman was, in all outward appearance, the converse of his companion."
10026,"It was disturbing to think that one, perhaps two, of our monsters still lived that thought haunted us shadowingly, till finally West disappeared under frightful circumstances."
10027,"The building, then, must still be inhabited, despite its isolation and general neglect."
10028,"Charter Street, it turned out to be, but I was too flustered to notice just where we hit it."
10029,"Dazedness was uppermost, and I could scarcely recall what was dream and what was reality."
10030,"His Majesty counts heavily, smiles, and is taking wine."
10031,"For a century and more, it appeared, the Roulets had been well remembered and frequently discussed as vivid incidents in the quiet life of a New England seaport."
10032,"One eye was blue, the other brown."
10033,"A woman deposed that she lived near the beach and was standing at the door of her cottage, waiting for the return of the fishermen, about an hour before she heard of the discovery of the body, when she saw a boat with only one man in it push off from that part of the shore where the corpse was afterwards found."
10034,But here's a funny thing.
10035,"Are not the starry worlds that, from the abyss of nonentity, burst hourly forth into the heavens are not these stars, Agathos, the immediate handiwork of the King?"
10036,"He looked up to her as his guide, and such was his adoration that he delighted to augment to his own mind the sense of inferiority with which she sometimes impressed him."
10037,"The place is a remote, lonely elevation in that part of the Catskills where Dutch civilisation once feebly and transiently penetrated, leaving behind as it receded only a few ruined mansions and a degenerate squatter population inhabiting pitiful hamlets on isolated slopes."
10038,"It was a vast undulating plain, mostly covered with seaweed, and strown with the shells of small molluscs."
10039,"That consideration made me breathless with anguish, and impressing itself on my imagination I was unable for a time to follow up any train of ideas."
10040,"Of what his clothing consisted I could hardly tell, for it seemed to me no more than a mass of tatters surmounting a pair of high, heavy boots; and his lack of cleanliness surpassed description."
10041,His depression and anxiety fled; he became all life and activity.
10042,"""I continued for the remainder of the day in my hovel in a state of utter and stupid despair."
10043,"""Then I grew angry and cursed, with the curse of silence, the river, and the lilies, and the wind, and the forest, and the heaven, and the thunder, and the sighs of the water lilies."
10044,"Obviously, the besiegers had brought some ponderous object into play as a battering ram."
10045,I always required the stimulants of companionship and applause.
10046,"Art the Arts arose supreme, and, once enthroned, cast chains upon the intellect which had elevated them to power."
10047,"I spoke to him frankly upon the subject; and, to my surprise, his interest seemed vividly excited."
10048,V. Yes to avoid confusion.
10049,"That the path of our sun along such a circumference that the direction of our system in such an orbit would, to any human perception, deviate in the slightest degree from a straight line even in a million of years, is a proposition not to be entertained; and yet these ancient astronomers were absolutely cajoled, it appears, into believing that a decisive curvature had become apparent during the brief period of their astronomical history during the mere point during the utter nothingness of two or three thousand years How incomprehensible, that considerations such as this did not at once indicate to them the true state of affairs that of the binary revolution of our sun and Alpha Lyrae around a common centre of gravity April ."
10050,"I only wonder that at that moment, instead of venting my sensations in exclamations and agony, I did not rush among mankind and perish in the attempt to destroy them."
10051,"I was by no means certain that he had noticed the sounds in question; although, assuredly, a strange alteration had, during the last few minutes, taken place in his demeanor."
10052,"But what frightened me most was that flaming column; spouting volcanically from depths profound and inconceivable, casting no shadows as healthy flame should, and coating the nitrous stone above with a nasty, venomous verdigris."
10053,"Before I could recover my scattered wits he had relaxed his clutch on my shoulder and dashed wildly inland toward the street, reeling northward around the ruined warehouse wall."
10054,"Even had its outlines been unfamiliar we would have desired it, but as we looked more closely we saw that it was not wholly unfamiliar."
10055,"Her tall slim figure bent gracefully as a poplar to the breezy west, and her gait, goddess like, was as that of a winged angel new alit from heaven's high floor; the pearly fairness of her complexion was stained by a pure suffusion; her voice resembled the low, subdued tenor of a flute."
10056,Just at this time Adrian came down to us; his eager looks shewed us that he was full of some scheme.
10057,"He then proceeded to meet him, and gave the Wellingtons a rub or two with his wool."
10058,"The more common conclusion, however, was that the affair was, simply, X traordinary and in X plicable."
10059,"Clearly, as I realised a moment later, it was the pastor; clad in some peculiar vestments doubtless introduced since the Order of Dagon had modified the ritual of the local churches."
10060,When I looked around I saw and heard of none like me.
10061,There was one resource left me yet.
10062,"With becoming modesty, he forebore, nevertheless, to touch upon the theme I had just then most at heart I mean the mysterious circumstances attending the Bugaboo war and, on my own part, what I conceive to be a proper sense of delicacy forbade me to broach the subject; although, in truth, I was exceedingly tempted to do so."
10063,"He gave orders for the retreat to be sounded, and the regiments repaired in good order to the camp."
10064,"The English for the most part talked of Thrace and Macedonia, as they would of a lunar territory, which, unknown to them, presented no distinct idea or interest to the minds."
10065,"""Why, yes, madam, there is."
10066,"The six remaining pigs of seamen, suspecting that we were lost, had suddenly burst into a mad fury at our refusal to surrender to the Yankee battleship two days before; and were in a delirium of cursing and destruction."
10067,"It is rumoured in Ulthar, beyond the river Skai, that a new king reigns on the opal throne in Ilek Vad, that fabulous town of turrets atop the hollow cliffs of glass overlooking the twilight sea wherein the bearded and finny Gnorri build their singular labyrinths, and I believe I know how to interpret this rumour."
10068,"In the second place, I could have no breeches until I came across the crow."
10069,"What is said about detecting and bringing into practice nice relations of size, proportion, and color, is one of those mere vaguenesses of speech which serve to veil inaccuracy of thought."
10070,"He who had so calmly left me a little while previously, now called from below in a shaky whisper more portentous than the loudest shriek: ""God If you could see what I am seeing"" I could not answer."
10071,"We had hardly more than turned, however, when there descended such a blinding sheet of torrential rain that shelter became imperative."
10072,"There is a sense of spectral whirling through liquid gulfs of infinity, of dizzying rides through reeling universes on a comet's tail, and of hysterical plunges from the pit to the moon and from the moon back again to the pit, all livened by a cachinnating chorus of the distorted, hilarious elder gods and the green, bat winged mocking imps of Tartarus."
10073,"Well, if you must hear it, I don't know why you shouldn't."
10074,"A few months before my arrival they had lived in a large and luxurious city called Paris, surrounded by friends and possessed of every enjoyment which virtue, refinement of intellect, or taste, accompanied by a moderate fortune, could afford."
10075,I will confine myself to the momentous details of my own lamentable adventure.
10076,I have tried to hint what it was in order to postpone the horror of writing it down baldly.
10077,Clerval had never sympathized in my tastes for natural science; and his literary pursuits differed wholly from those which had occupied me.
10078,The cushions we probed with the fine long needles you have seen me employ.
10079,I knew that in more than one place it must be already severed.
10080,"Raymond repeated his instructions, and the visitor retired."
10081,"Sometimes I believe that this less material life is our truer life, and that our vain presence on the terraqueous globe is itself the secondary or merely virtual phenomenon."
10082,SINCE the world began there have been two Jeremys.
10083,A wrong is unredressed when retribution overtakes its redresser.
10084,A human being in perfection ought always to preserve a calm and peaceful mind and never to allow passion or a transitory desire to disturb his tranquillity.
10085,"He sat upright in bed, astonished to find himself at home and completely ignorant of what had happened in dream or reality since the night of March nd."
10086,"""My body was now inclined towards the side of the car, at an angle of about forty five degrees; but it must not be understood that I was therefore only forty five degrees below the perpendicular."
10087,"Owing to the abruptness of the change a wire was disconnected, which necessitated a delay of many minutes for repairs; but at length the light streamed on again, flooding the marine valley below me."
10088,"Thursday night began much like the others, but it ended less happily."
10089,"I am sorry that you could not have paid us a visit at an earlier period, that you might have judged for yourself."
10090,Sometimes I thought that the fiend followed me and might expedite my remissness by murdering my companion.
10091,"This done, we wait until the palace is half way up, and then we pay some tasty architect to run us up an ornamental mud hovel, right against it; or a Down East or Dutch Pagoda, or a pig sty, or an ingenious little bit of fancy work, either Esquimau, Kickapoo, or Hottentot."
10092,"I had found the spell of the picture in an absolute life likeliness of expression, which, at first startling, finally confounded, subdued, and appalled me."
10093,"I know, though she does not, how false the veil is which she has spread over the reality do not endeavour to rend this deceptive covering, but by degrees withdraw it."
10094,But this was the best side of the question.
10095,"One dreads to trust the tenebrous tunnel of the bridge, yet there is no way to avoid it."
10096,"Thus ran his discourse, until with the greatest suddenness he ceased."
10097,"But it refreshed me and filled me with such agreeable sensations that I resolved to prolong my stay on the water, and fixing the rudder in a direct position, stretched myself at the bottom of the boat."
10098,"As he said this his countenance became expressive of a calm, settled grief that touched me to the heart."
10099,"I passed down a long and winding staircase, requesting him to be cautious as he followed."
10100,"The piazzas of the main building and western wing had no floors, as is usual; but at the doors and at each window, large, flat irregular slabs of granite lay imbedded in the delicious turf, affording comfortable footing in all weather."
10101,The dreams were meanwhile getting to be atrocious.
10102,"These fragments, as Armitage recalls them, ran something like ""N'gai, n'gha'ghaa, bugg shoggog, y'hah; Yog Sothoth, Yog Sothoth. . ."
10103,"""Doctair Muñoz,"" she cried as she rushed upstairs ahead of me, ""he have speel hees chemicals."
10104,How dare you sport thus with life?
10105,"The roof of the void, as seen whilst it was open, was not by any means thick; yet now the drills of the investigators met what appeared to be a limitless extent of solid rock."
10106,"One living beggar had become of more worth than a national peerage of dead lords alas the day than of dead heroes, patriots, or men of genius."
10107,But it is by no means my present object to pen an essay on Happiness.
10108,"We are not formed for enjoyment; and, however we may be attuned to the reception of pleasureable emotion, disappointment is the never failing pilot of our life's bark, and ruthlessly carries us on to the shoals."
10109,"There were no carriages, and grass had sprung high in the streets; the houses had a desolate look; most of the shutters were closed; and there was a ghast and frightened stare in the persons I met, very different from the usual business like demeanour of the Londoners."
10110,"She felt struck by the plague; her aged frame was unable to bear her away with sufficient speed; and now, believing herself infected, she no longer dreaded the association of others; but, as swiftly as she might, came to her grand daughter, at Windsor Castle, there to lament and die."
10111,Its variations seem to be chiefly of degree.
10112,"The multitudinous conglomeration of rare matter into nebulæ, planets, suns, and other bodies which are neither nebulæ, suns, nor planets, is for the sole purpose of supplying pabulum for the idiosyncrasy of the organs of an infinity of rudimental beings."
10113,"He soon reached the summit, and disappeared."
10114,"She was not without notions of what a nobleman's dignity should be, and saw to it that her son received the best education which limited money could provide."
10115,"The spirit of existence was dead within me; be not surprised therefore that when it came I welcomed not more gladly, or when it departed I lamented not more bitterly the best gift of heaven a friend."
10116,"The handkerchief bore the name, 'Marie Rogêt.' Fragments of dress were seen on the branches around."
10117,"I procured Laudanum and placing it in two glasses on the table, filled my room with flowers and decorated the last scene of my tragedy with the nicest care."
10118,"From the watchman's cabin, however, gleamed a small square of yellow light like a guardian eye."
10119,"From the fourth the bones had been thrown down, and lay promiscuously upon the earth, forming at one point a mound of some size."
10120,Leeches were applied to the temples.
10121,"It was evident, that, at the expiration of an hour, the pitcher, getting full, would be forced to run over, and to run over at the mouth, which was somewhat lower than the rim."
10122,"This machinery is situated just beneath the left shoulder of the Turk, and is consequently easily reached by the right hand of the man concealed, if we suppose his right arm brought across the breast."
10123,"Up to the period when I fell I had counted fifty two paces, and upon resuming my walk, I had counted forty eight more; when I arrived at the rag."
10124,"But the consideration of these points, and the well balancing of what you may esteem your duties, I leave to you; my judgment and ideas are already disturbed by the near approach of death."
10125,"They ascend into the heavens; they have discovered how the blood circulates, and the nature of the air we breathe."
10126,"Well, then, you shall be married precisely precisely, now mind when three Sundays come together in a week Do you hear me, sir What are you gaping at?"
10127,"Alas, poor country; Almost afraid to know itself It cannot Be called our mother, but our grave: where nothing, But who knows nothing, is once seen to smile; Where sighs, and groans, and shrieks that rent the air, Are made, not marked; where violent sorrow seems A modern extasy: the dead man's knell Is there scarce asked, for who; and good men's lives Expire before the flowers in their caps, Dying, or ere they sicken."
10128,But there were very few of the terror stricken people who attributed these doings to the agency of human hands.
10129,"My convalescence rapidly advanced, yet this was the thought that haunted me, and I was for ever forming plans how I might hereafter contrive to escape the tortures that were prepared for me when I should mix in society, and to find that solitude which alone could suit one whom an untold grief seperated from her fellow creatures."
10130,The sky was dark on the evening that the Tyrant's emissaries came to Tegea.
10131,"""God bless me my dear fellow,"" here again whistled the bundle, ""what what what why, what is the matter?"
10132,"He paused, but I could only nod my head."
10133,What the others were in their own dimensional sphere or spheres he dared not try to think.
10134,I had indulged more freely than usual in the excesses of the wine table; and now the suffocating atmosphere of the crowded rooms irritated me beyond endurance.
10135,"I should prefer, however, that you have the actual fact to bear you out."
10136,What now might have been my conduct it is difficult to say.
10137,"Into the sky the spires of its temples reached, so that no man might behold their peaks; and far back beyond the horizon stretched the grim, grey walls, over which one might spy only a few roofs, weird and ominous, yet adorned with rich friezes and alluring sculptures."
10138,"The young are seldom in Elysium, for their desires, outstripping possibility, leave them as poor as a moneyless debtor."
10139,"By Heaven the first tears I have shed since boyhood rushed scalding into my eyes when I saw him."""
10140,"The waiting was gruesome, but West never faltered."
10141,"""My son,"" he replied, ""it is still the study of Nosology; but in hitting the Elector upon the nose you have overshot your mark."
10142,"I was eventually, I may add, almost cured of my disease for all time by his skilful ministrations."
10143,"In Sona Nyl there is no pain nor death, but who can tell what lies beyond the basalt pillars of the West?"""
10144,"""Well, den, zit still and pehabe yourself, or I'll rap you again mid me vist."
10145,"His voice became fainter as he spoke, and at length, exhausted by his effort, he sank into silence."
10146,"Shriek, ye clarions ye loud trumpets, howl Pile dirge on dirge; rouse the funereal chords; let the air ring with dire wailing; let wild discord rush on the wings of the wind Already I hear it, while guardian angels, attendant on humanity, their task achieved, hasten away, and their departure is announced by melancholy strains; faces all unseemly with weeping, forced open my lids; faster and faster many groups of these woe begone countenances thronged around, exhibiting every variety of wretchedness well known faces mingled with the distorted creations of fancy."
10147,"One day, when my father had gone by himself to Milan, my mother, accompanied by me, visited this abode."
10148,Nor did Musides fail to bury close to Kalos' head the olive twigs from the grove.
10149,"We changed to the elevated at the South Station, and at about twelve o'clock had climbed down the steps at Battery Street and struck along the old waterfront past Constitution Wharf."
10150,I must fly from him with more earnestness than from my greatest enemy: in solitude or in cities I must never more behold him.
10151,"""Then fur ahead where Bishop's Brook goes under the rud he heerd a awful creakin' an' strainin' on the bridge, an' says he could tell the saound o' wood a startin' to crack an' split."
10152,"Elizabeth also wept and was unhappy, but hers also was the misery of innocence, which, like a cloud that passes over the fair moon, for a while hides but cannot tarnish its brightness."
10153,That a mile to the northward is Ambaaren.
10154,"Look not on the star, dear love, or do, and let that eternal spark plead for me; let it be my witness and my advocate, silent as it shines love is to me as light to the star; even so long as that is uneclipsed by annihilation, so long shall I love you."""
10155,"Once across, it is hard to prevent the impression of a faint, malign odour about the village street, as of the massed mould and decay of centuries."
10156,"He assures me on his professional honour that Joe Slater was but a low grade paranoiac, whose fantastic notions must have come from the crude hereditary folk tales which circulate in even the most decadent of communities."
10157,"My first vivid impression of my own presence in this terrible necropolis concerns the act of pausing with Warren before a certain half obliterated sepulchre, and of throwing down some burdens which we seemed to have been carrying."
10158,"And when the day dawned, rosy and effulgent, I beheld the green shore of far lands, bright and beautiful, and to me unknown."
10159,"We shall swim out to that brooding reef in the sea and dive down through black abysses to Cyclopean and many columned Y'ha nthlei, and in that lair of the Deep Ones we shall dwell amidst wonder and glory for ever."
10160,"A kind of growing horror, of outré and morbid cast, seemed to possess him."
10161,I had long been plotting one of those ill natured pieces of practical wit at his expense in which I had hitherto been so uniformly unsuccessful.
10162,"From the hour of the accident till July we drifted constantly to the south, almost without plans and encountering no vessel."
10163,There was thunder in the air on the night I went to the deserted mansion atop Tempest Mountain to find the lurking fear.
10164,"We saw Tilbury Fort and remembered the Spanish Armada, Gravesend, Woolwich, and Greenwich places which I had heard of even in my country."
10165,But so blind is the experience of man that what I conceived to be the best assistants to my plan may have entirely destroyed it.
10166,No word spoke the deliverer.
10167,That nebulous light had been extinguished.
10168,"But he cleaned the key, and kept it by him nightly in its aromatic box of ancient oak."
10169,"From a wide circle of ten scaffolds set up at regular intervals with the flame girt monolith as a centre hung, head downward, the oddly marred bodies of the helpless squatters who had disappeared."
10170,What I saw in the glow of my flashlight after I shot the unspeakable straggling object was so simple that almost a minute elapsed before I understood and went delirious.
10171,"When Maelzel opens the door No. I, the man within is not in any danger of discovery, for the keenest eye cannot penetrate more than about two inches into the darkness within."
10172,"From that day on my life has been a nightmare of brooding and apprehension, nor do I know how much is hideous truth and how much madness."
10173,"The Rue des Drômes is a short and narrow but populous thoroughfare, not far from the banks of the river, and at a distance of some two miles, in the most direct course possible, from the pension of Madame Rogêt."
10174,"It was a beautiful scarabæus, and, at that time, unknown to naturalists of course a great prize in a scientific point of view."
10175,"I came out, my morals unimproved, my hatred to my oppressors encreased tenfold."
10176,"""May ne'er a noble of thy murd'rous line Survive to reach a greater age than thine"" spake he, when, suddenly leaping backwards into the black wood, he drew from his tunic a phial of colourless liquid which he threw into the face of his father's slayer as he disappeared behind the inky curtain of the night."
10177,"Another might not have relished the damp, odorous chamber with the eight carelessly placed coffins; but Birch in those days was insensitive, and was concerned only in getting the right coffin for the right grave."
10178,"How my elder brother escaped destruction I cannot say, for I never had an opportunity of ascertaining."
10179,"He comes; he is coming; there he is ""Who?"
10180,"This there was no great difficulty in doing; for the smack flew round steadily enough, and upon an even keel only swaying to and fro, with the immense sweeps and swelters of the whirl."
10181,"After listening to them for some time, with thoughtful attention, I at length succeeded perfectly in translating their import."
10182,"Impressed with this idea, I was about to relinquish my hold and give up the ghost with a good grace, when I was arrested by the cry of the Angel, who bade me hold on."
10183,"We had devised two weapons to fight it; a large and specially fitted Crookes tube operated by powerful storage batteries and provided with peculiar screens and reflectors, in case it proved intangible and opposable only by vigorously destructive ether radiations, and a pair of military flame throwers of the sort used in the world war, in case it proved partly material and susceptible of mechanical destruction for like the superstitious Exeter rustics, we were prepared to burn the thing's heart out if heart existed to burn."
10184,We have a task before us which must be speedily performed.
10185,"Clara got rid also of her restraint; Adrian and she had been old playfellows; and now, as they walked or rode together, he yielded to her earnest entreaty, and repeated, for the hundredth time, some tale of her father's bravery, munificence, or justice."
10186,"According to this trustworthy man, Sir Arthur Jermyn dismissed everyone from the room before opening the box, though the instant sound of hammer and chisel shewed that he did not delay the operation."
10187,I have been looking at the timbers of the ship.
10188,"But in the cosmos there is balm as well as bitterness, and that balm is nepenthe."
10189,"""Her companion also wears remarkably well,"" said the one of my trio who had spoken first."
10190,"Altering my countenance, therefore, in a moment, from its bepuffed and distorted appearance, to an expression of arch and coquettish benignity, I gave my lady a pat on the one cheek, and a kiss on the other, and without saying one syllable Furies I could not, left her astonished at my drollery, as I pirouetted out of the room in a Pas de Zephyr."
10191,Did you not call this a glorious expedition?
10192,"The great stone city R'lyeh, with its monoliths and sepulchres, had sunk beneath the waves; and the deep waters, full of the one primal mystery through which not even thought can pass, had cut off the spectral intercourse."
10193,"The charitable, nevertheless, attributed the alteration in the conduct of the young nobleman to the natural sorrow of a son for the untimely loss of his parents forgetting, however, his atrocious and reckless behavior during the short period immediately succeeding that bereavement."
10194,Quito was destroyed by an earthquake.
10195,"Her expectations had been strongly excited; she had urged nothing against our project, on the contrary, she was evidently pleased by it; but its evident ill success changed the current of her ideas."
10196,"I am prepared, so that I leave behind a trail of light so radiant, that my worst enemies cannot cloud it."
10197,"I called it rapture, when a smile made my heart beat; and I felt the life's blood tingle in my frame, when I approached the idol which for awhile I worshipped."
10198,"Not more unutterable could have been the chaos of hellish sound if the pit itself had opened to release the agony of the damned, for in one inconceivable cacophony was centred all the supernal terror and unnatural despair of animate nature."
10199,"After some delay, a cart arrived at the wharf, with an oblong pine box, which was every thing that seemed to be expected."
10200,"I could no longer attend to my occupations; all my plans and devices were forgotten; I seemed about to begin life anew, and that under no good auspices."
10201,"It was not a groan of pain or of grief oh, no it was the low stifled sound that arises from the bottom of the soul when overcharged with awe."
10202,"He seemed quite willing to speak of his position as superintendent of a Maison de Sante; and, indeed, the topic of lunacy was, much to my surprise, a favorite one with all present."
10203,"Promise me secrecy however; for if you will not contribute to my success, at least you must not baffle me."" ""Well, I promise."
10204,"I tell you, it is I I I that have lived for six hundred years to maintain my revenge, FOR I AM CHARLES LE SORCIER"" My memories are very confused."
10205,"I remember how I read the book at last white faced, and locked in the attic room that I had long devoted to strange searchings."
10206,"If not like me, vat for vy buy de pig in the poke?"" ""You wretch"" said I, catching my breath ""you you you villainous old hag"" ""Ag? ole? me not so ver ole, after all Me not one single day more dan de eighty doo."" ""Eighty two"" I ejaculated, staggering to the wall ""eighty two hundred thousand baboons The miniature said twenty seven years and seven months"" ""To be sure dat is so ver true but den de portraite has been take for dese fifty five year."
10207,"They hardly know how ill you have been and are uneasy at your long silence."""
10208,"The book fell open, almost of its own accord and as if from frequent consultation at this place, to the repellent twelfth plate shewing a butcher's shop amongst the Anzique cannibals."
10209,The summer sun shone in an unclouded sky; the air was close but all was cool to me except my own scorching skin.
10210,"Manton, though smaller than I, is more resilient; for we opened our eyes at almost the same instant, despite his greater injuries."
10211,"He proceeded by observing, analyzing, and classifying facts instantiae naturae, as they were affectedly called into general laws."
10212,"The light in the temple is a sheer delusion, and I shall die calmly, like a German, in the black and forgotten depths."
10213,"As the particles struck the glassy surface at the centre of the strange device, they seemed to produce a crackling noise like the sputtering of a vacuum tube through which sparks are passed."
10214,What reason could there have been for the low the singularly low tone of those unmeaning words which the lady uttered hurriedly in bidding him adieu?
10215,"Bitter task was it, to behold his spirit waver between death and life: to see his warm cheek, and know that the very fire which burned too fiercely there, was consuming the vital fuel; to hear his moaning voice, which might never again articulate words of love and wisdom; to witness the ineffectual motions of his limbs, soon to be wrapt in their mortal shroud."
10216,"Bravo bravo There is none but Epiphanes, No there is none: So tear down the temples, And put out the sun Well and strenuously sung The populace are hailing him 'Prince of ts,' as well as 'Glory of the East,' 'Delight of the Universe,' and 'Most Remarkable of Cameleopards.'"
10217,Alas I did not yet entirely know the fatal effects of this miserable deformity.
10218,"But these were few, in comparison to the numbers who actually crossed."
10219,"The corpse, already greatly decayed and clotted with gore, stood erect before the eyes of the spectators."
10220,"When the husband and father deserted his family, the mother took the child to Jermyn House; where there was none left to object to her presence."
10221,"I wondered how many of those who had known the legends realised that additional link with the terrible which my wide reading had given me; that ominous item in the annals of morbid horror which tells of the creature Jacques Roulet, of Caude, who in was condemned to death as a daemoniac but afterward saved from the stake by the Paris parliament and shut in a madhouse."
10222,"They tell also of a vague horror at my heart, on account of that heart's unnatural stillness."
10223,"Now, here is a clear gain, in a very brief period, of no less than one dollar and twenty five cents this is in the mere cases of Snap and Gruff; and I solemnly assure the reader that these extracts are taken at random from my Day Book."
10224,"In the Book of Invaders it is told that these sons of the Greeks were all buried at Tallaght, but old men in Kilderry said that one city was overlooked save by its patron moon goddess; so that only the wooded hills buried it when the men of Nemed swept down from Scythia in their thirty ships."
10225,"""The repetition would be useless,"" said Raymond, ""since I well remember them, and have many others, self suggested, which speak with unanswerable persuasion."""
10226,With a more than human resolution I lay still.
10227,Gratitude and praise marked where her footsteps had been.
10228,Their intercourse continued.
10229,"Nor was any spot in that city more steeped in macabre memory than the gable room which harboured him for it was this house and this room which had likewise harboured old Keziah Mason, whose flight from Salem Gaol at the last no one was ever able to explain."
10230,Alas Why did they preserve so miserable and detested a life?
10231,"Birch, in his ghastly situation, was now too low for an easy scramble out of the enlarged transom; but gathered his energies for a determined try."
10232,"Some believe this crucifix was dragged up to the sealed loft by rats, while others think it must have been on the floor in some corner of Gilman's old room all the time."
10233,"The game being ended, Maelzel will again if desired, exhibit the mechanism of the box, in the same manner as before."
10234,"In those greenish beams the candles paled, and a new semblance of decay spread over the musk reeking room with its wormy panelling, sagging floor, battered mantel, rickety furniture, and ragged draperies."
10235,I paused to collect myself and then entered the chamber.
10236,"Musides, weeping, promised him a sepulchre more lovely than the tomb of Mausolus; but Kalos bade him speak no more of marble glories."
10237,"The Essex County histories on the library shelves had very little to say, except that the town was founded in , noted for shipbuilding before the Revolution, a seat of great marine prosperity in the early nineteenth century, and later a minor factory centre using the Manuxet as power."
10238,"Be it light with him when it is darkness with me Let him feel the sun of summer while I am chilled by the snows of winter Let there be the distance of the antipodes between us At length the east began to brighten, and the comfortable light of morning streamed into my room."
10239,"We made a determined effort to put back, but our little boat was like a feather in the breath of the tempest."
10240,"Results, I am certain, are so thorough that no public harm save a shock of repulsion could ever accrue from a hinting of what was found by those horrified raiders at Innsmouth."
10241,In the small hours of the morning a body of silent men had entered the grounds and their leader had aroused the attendants.
10242,"The considerate kindness of the Angel mollified me in no little measure; and, aided by the water with which he diluted my Port more than once, I at length regained sufficient temper to listen to his very extraordinary discourse."
10243,"Of any land upheaval in the Pacific, my rescuers knew nothing; nor did I deem it necessary to insist upon a thing which I knew they could not believe."
10244,"I quote a passage or two from its columns: ""We are persuaded that pursuit has hitherto been on a false scent, so far as it has been directed to the Barrière du Roule."
10245,"But I did not pursue this course for more than a moment; for when the dumb musician recognised the whistled air his face grew suddenly distorted with an expression wholly beyond analysis, and his long, cold, bony right hand reached out to stop my mouth and silence the crude imitation."
10246,Immediately upon beholding this amulet we knew that we must possess it; that this treasure alone was our logical pelf from the centuried grave.
10247,And in this calculation I was not deceived.
10248,And yet I dared not request him to use his influence that I might obtain an honourable provision for myself for then I should have been obliged to leave Windsor.
10249,A second story told of the god's return and death at the feet of his enshrined wife.
10250,"Yet though lovely and full of noble feeling, my poor Perdita for this was the fanciful name my sister had received from her dying parent, was not altogether saintly in her disposition."
10251,"The Thing of the idols, the green, sticky spawn of the stars, had awaked to claim his own."
10252,"The result was, that I got rid of the old bore, and began to feel a little independent and gentleman like."
10253,"In Ulthar, which lies beyond the river Skai, once dwelt an old man avid to behold the gods of earth; a man deeply learned in the seven cryptical books of Hsan, and familiar with the Pnakotic Manuscripts of distant and frozen Lomar."
10254,"""How can I move thee?"
10255,From far shores came those white sailed argosies of old; from far Eastern shores where warm suns shine and sweet odours linger about strange gardens and gay temples.
10256,"If some scene of tremendous agony shook my frame and fevered my brow, I would lay my head on the lap of Idris, and the tumultuous pulses subsided into a temperate flow her smile could raise me from hopelessness, her embrace bathe my sorrowing heart in calm peace."
10257,"let us drink Let us pour out an offering to yon solemn sun which these gaudy lamps and censers are so eager to subdue"" And, having made me pledge him in a bumper, he swallowed in rapid succession several goblets of the wine."
10258,I should think you'd have known I didn't drop Pickman for the same silly reasons that fussy old women like Dr. Reid or Joe Minot or Bosworth did.
10259,"""It is easily understood,"" says Mr. Ellison, ""that what might improve a closely scrutinized detail, might, at the same time, injure a general and more distantly observed effect."""
10260,"There was the spirited and obedient steed which Lord Raymond had given his daughter; there was Alfred's dog and a pet eagle, whose sight was dimmed through age."
10261,"Less than a week after our return to England, strange things began to happen."
10262,"Ah, not in knowledge is happiness, but in the acquisition of knowledge In for ever knowing, we are for ever blessed; but to know all were the curse of a fiend."
10263,"I read it, as I had read the other volumes which had fallen into my hands, as a true history."
10264,"Unconsciously looking upon Goldsmith as a meer Encumbrance when compar'd to the greater Man, the Foreigner bluntly interrupted him and incurr'd his lasting Hostility by crying, ""Hush, Toctor Shonson iss going to speak"" In this luminous Company I was tolerated more because of my Years than for my Wit or Learning; being no Match at all for the rest."
10265,"One fine morning, very shortly afterwards, ""I awoke and found myself famous."""
10266,"Thus interested, and knowing that the heir she sought was actually in the city, she made inquiries of her party respecting me."
10267,"Yet at this time, with human fondness, she clung to all that her human senses permitted her to see and feel to be a part of Raymond."
10268,"He explained to me although I have forgotten the explanation how what I observed was, in fact, the natural consequence of the forms of the floating fragments and showed me how it happened that a cylinder, swimming in a vortex, offered more resistance to its suction, and was drawn in with greater difficulty than an equally bulky body, of any form whatever. ""There was one startling circumstance which went a great way in enforcing these observations, and rendering me anxious to turn them to account, and this was that, at every revolution, we passed something like a barrel, or else the yard or the mast of a vessel, while many of these things, which had been on our level when I first opened my eyes upon the wonders of the whirlpool, were now high up above us, and seemed to have moved but little from their original station."
10269,"In spite of the misery I deprecated, and could not understand; in spite of the cold hearths of wide London, and the corpse strewn fields of my native land; in spite of all the variety of agonizing emotions I had that evening experienced, I thought that in reply to our melodious adjurations, the Creator looked down in compassion and promise of relief; the awful peal of the heaven winged music seemed fitting voice wherewith to commune with the Supreme; calm was produced by its sound, and by the sight of many other human creatures offering up prayers and submission with me."
10270,Every connoisseur in such matters admitted the legs to be good.
10271,"His great great great grandmother, he recalled, was said to have been the daughter of a Portuguese trader in Africa."
10272,"These things were bad enough, and these were all that gained belief among the persons whom I knew."
10273,"When he was silent I tried to divert him, and when sometimes I stole to him during the energy of his passion I wept but did not desire to leave him."
10274,"""God knows,"" she said, ""how entirely I am innocent."
10275,"That evening he went to bed, but slept only fitfully."
10276,"The livid aspect of his countenance was intensified, his voice became more hollow and indistinct, his muscular motions were less perfectly coördinated, and his mind and will displayed less resilience and initiative."
10277,"If the monster executed his threat, death was inevitable; yet, again, I considered whether my marriage would hasten my fate."
10278,"That night everyone went home, and every house and barn was barricaded as stoutly as possible."
10279,Evadne was eighteen years of age.
10280,"Having pulled the bag up in this way, and formed a complete enclosure on all sides, and at bottom, it was now necessary to fasten up its top or mouth, by passing its material over the hoop of the net work in other words, between the net work and the hoop."
10281,"It was long ere any traveller went thither, and even then only the brave and adventurous young men of distant Falona dared make the journey; adventurous young men of yellow hair and blue eyes, who are no kin to the men of Mnar."
10282,"Oh he says the king is coming in triumph; that he is dressed in state; that he has just finished putting to death, with his own hand, a thousand chained Israelitish prisoners For this exploit the ragamuffin is lauding him to the skies."
10283,After that thing I had dug a grave for one whose death I could not understand.
10284,"In the marble streets were marble pillars, the upper parts of which were carven into the images of grave bearded men."
10285,"Smith, eh? Brigadier General John A. B. C.? I say"" here Mr. S. thought proper to put his finger to the side of his nose ""I say, you don't mean to insinuate now, really and truly, and conscientiously, that you don't know all about that affair of Smith's, as well as I do, eh? Smith?"
10286,"This hideous murder accomplished, I set myself forthwith, and with entire deliberation, to the task of concealing the body."
10287,"References to decline were few, though the significance of the later record was unmistakable."
10288,The cards were dealt.
10289,"I might waste days in describing how anxiously I watched every change of fleeting circumstance that promised better days, and with what despair I found that each effort of mine aggravated his seeming madness."
10290,"Orphans, in the fullest sense of the term, we were poorest among the poor, and despised among the unhonoured."
10291,"When these circumstances were reported to Raymond, he caused minute observations to be made as to what was doing within the walls, and when his scouts returned, reporting only the continued silence and desolation of the city, he commanded the army to be drawn out before the gates."
10292,"It had not been their intention to return; but, at my request, they agreed to look in upon the patient about ten the next night."
10293,"Daedalus never wound so inextricable an error round Minotaur, as madness has woven about his imprisoned reason."
10294,"But mind ye, Luther he didn't see nothin' at all, only just the bendin' trees an' underbrush."
10295,The note which he finally handed me was an appeal for tolerance and forgiveness.
10296,"But though the dreaded Martenses were gone, the fear of the haunted house continued; and grew very acute when new and strange stories arose among the mountain decadents."
10297,"Methought that, Adrian withdrawn from active life, and this beauteous Idris, a victim probably to her mother's ambitious schemes, I ought to come forward to protect her from undue influence, guard her from unhappiness, and secure to her freedom of choice, the right of every human being."
10298,"At the same moment, the man with the teetotum predilection, set himself to spinning around the apartment, with immense energy, and with arms outstretched at right angles with his body; so that he had all the air of a tee totum in fact, and knocked everybody down that happened to get in his way."
10299,"Upon so doing, I soon rose above the difficulty, and perceived immediately, that I had obtained a great increase in my rate of ascent."
10300,"In answer to our eager questions, one word alone fell, as it were involuntarily, from his convulsed lips: The Plague."
10301,"The old maps still held good, and I had no trouble; though at Arkham they must have lied when they said the trolleys ran to this place, since I saw not a wire overhead."
10302,"I began distinctly, positively, to remember that there had been no drawing upon the parchment when I made my sketch of the scarabæus."
10303,"The next January gossips were mildly interested in the fact that ""Lavinny's black brat"" had commenced to talk, and at the age of only eleven months."
10304,"Here Miss Bas Bleu beckoned to me in a very peremptory manner; and I was obliged, will I nill I, to leave Mrs. P. for the purpose of deciding a dispute touching the title of a certain poetical drama of Lord Byron's."
10305,I called Pompey to my side.
10306,"I shall continue my journal concerning the stranger at intervals, should I have any fresh incidents to record."
10307,"My next step was to re examine with microscopic care the deserted hamlet where death had come most abundantly, and where Arthur Munroe had seen something he never lived to describe."
10308,"Strange to say the result perhaps of the concussion of air occasioned by the blowing up of the city huge, white thunder clouds lifted themselves up from the southern horizon, and gathered over head; they were the first blots on the blue expanse that I had seen for months, and amidst this havoc and despair they inspired pleasure."
10309,"""I know not,"" continued Dupin, ""what impression I may have made, so far, upon your own understanding; but I do not hesitate to say that legitimate deductions even from this portion of the testimony the portion respecting the gruff and shrill voices are in themselves sufficient to engender a suspicion which should give direction to all farther progress in the investigation of the mystery."
10310,"My slight fall had extinguished the lantern, but I produced an electric pocket lamp and viewed the small horizontal tunnel which led away indefinitely in both directions."
10311,Tears streamed from my eyes.
10312,"Here, however, after a long and very deliberate scrutiny, I saw nothing to excite particular suspicion."
10313,"Let it suffice, that among spendthrifts I out Heroded Herod, and that, giving name to a multitude of novel follies, I added no brief appendix to the long catalogue of vices then usual in the most dissolute university of Europe."
10314,"At length there broke in upon my dreams a cry as of horror and dismay; and thereunto, after a pause, succeeded the sound of troubled voices, intermingled with many low moanings of sorrow or of pain."
10315,"He considered the auriferous cavities the result of the action of water, and believed the last of them would soon be opened."
10316,"I know of no opportunity afforded him for so doing; or, if I had, why should he have stolen the jewel, to part with it again so soon?"
10317,I mentioned this to Perdita.
10318,"The man with the horrors was drowned upon the spot the little stiff gentleman floated off in his coffin and the victorious Legs, seizing by the waist the fat lady in the shroud, rushed out with her into the street, and made a bee line for the ""Free and Easy,"" followed under easy sail by the redoubtable Hugh Tarpaulin, who, having sneezed three or four times, panted and puffed after him with the Arch Duchess Ana Pest."
10319,"The lips, too, seemed unusual; being tightly compressed, as if by the force of a stronger character than had been Slater's."
10320,"The sailors on watch rushed to the side of the vessel, with the cry some one gone overboard."
10321,"When the seasons have become equal, when the air breeds no disorders, when its surface is no longer liable to blights and droughts, then sickness will cease; when men's passions are dead, poverty will depart."
10322,"A sense of monstrous guilt was upon the land, and out of the abysses between the stars swept chill currents that made men shiver in dark and lonely places."
10323,"The bleak mountain wind, sighing through the olive grove and the tomb tree, had an uncanny way of forming vaguely articulate sounds."
10324,"However, it would be better for the gentleman to take another room and get a crucifix from some good priest like Father Iwanicki."
10325,"Our line has been called a race of visionaries; and in many striking particulars in the character of the family mansion in the frescos of the chief saloon in the tapestries of the dormitories in the chiselling of some buttresses in the armory but more especially in the gallery of antique paintings in the fashion of the library chamber and, lastly, in the very peculiar nature of the library's contents there is more than sufficient evidence to warrant the belief."
10326,"The next afternoon a dense flock of sea birds appeared from the south, and the ocean began to heave ominously."
10327,Ere I could recover the use of my senses he was gone.
10328,"My ideas on this topic had also received confirmation by a passage in the eighty second volume of the Philosophical Transactions, in which it is stated that at an occultation of Jupiter's satellites, the third disappeared after having been about "" or "" of time indistinct, and the fourth became indiscernible near the limb."
10329,"To destroy a vampire one must, the grandmothers say, exhume it and burn its heart, or at least drive a stake through that organ; and Ann's dogged insistence on a search under the cellar had been prominent in bringing about her discharge."
10330,But why had my uncle killed himself after an ancestral quest in New England?
10331,I listened in extremity of horror.
10332,"There was one man, he continued, who wished to alter all this, and bring us back to our days of impotence and contention: one man, who would dare arrogate the honour which was due to all who claimed England as their birthplace, and set his name and style above the name and style of his country."
10333,Her love gave birth to sympathy; her intelligence made her understand him at a word; her powers of intellect enabled her to assist and guide him.
10334,"By reference to the 'Diary of Sir Humphrey Davy' Cottle and Munroe, London, pp."
10335,"But an earthquake had changed the scene under our very feet the earth yawned deep and precipitous the gulph below opened to receive us, while the hours charioted us towards the chasm."
10336,"Just where to begin Birch's story I can hardly decide, since I am no practiced teller of tales."
10337,"Presently I took a candle, and seating myself at the other end of the room, proceeded to scrutinize the parchment more closely."
10338,"The speaker had asked for the custody of the cannibal monster committed from Arkham sixteen years before; and upon being refused, gave a signal which precipitated a shocking riot."
10339,"You are damned, and he has become the hero of the day."
10340,"It was as I said, the nineteenth of October; the autumn was far advanced and dreary."
10341,"For the long neglected latch was obviously broken, leaving the careless undertaker trapped in the vault, a victim of his own oversight."
10342,"""Indeed it does, Lionel,"" she replied; ""I quite long to see him; he is the descendant of our kings, the first noble of the land: every one admires and loves him, and they say that his rank is his least merit; he is generous, brave, and affable."""
10343,"And this I did for seven long nights every night just at midnight but I found the eye always closed; and so it was impossible to do the work; for it was not the old man who vexed me, but his Evil Eye."
10344,"At all events, we can trace the science back to a very remote period of antiquity."
10345,But rage will carry a lady to any extreme; and in the present care it carried Mrs. Simpson to the very extraordinary extreme of attempting to hold a conversation in a tongue that she did not altogether understand.
10346,"He was more and more hated and dreaded around Dunwich because of certain youthful disappearances which suspicion laid vaguely at his door; but was always able to silence inquiry through fear or through use of that fund of old time gold which still, as in his grandfather's time, went forth regularly and increasingly for cattle buying."
10347,I rambled amidst the wild scenery of this lovely country and became a complete mountaineer: I passed hours on the steep brow of a mountain that overhung a waterfall or rowed myself in a little skiff to some one of the islands.
10348,"But it was winter now, and months must elapse before we are hurled from our security."
10349,All at once we were taken aback by a breeze from over Helseggen.
10350,"The watery blue eyes were almost savage and maniacal now, and the dirty white beard bristled electrically."
10351,"A town able to inspire such dislike in its neighbours, I thought, must be at least rather unusual, and worthy of a tourist's attention."
10352,"But that my firm courage and cheerful exertions might shelter the dear mate, whom I chose in the spring of my life; though the throbbings of my heart be replete with pain, though my hopes for the future are chill, still while your dear head, my gentlest love, can repose in peace on that heart, and while you derive from its fostering care, comfort, and hope, my struggles shall not cease, I will not call myself altogether vanquished."
10353,"As, in an instant afterwards, he stood with the still living and breathing child within his grasp, upon the marble flagstones by the side of the Marchesa, his cloak, heavy with the drenching water, became unfastened, and, falling in folds about his feet, discovered to the wonder stricken spectators the graceful person of a very young man, with the sound of whose name the greater part of Europe was then ringing."
10354,"I had long before resolved to limit my observations to architecture alone, and I was even then hurrying toward the Square in an effort to get quick transportation out of this festering city of death and decay; but the sight of old Zadok Allen set up new currents in my mind and made me slacken my pace uncertainly."
10355,"She told me, that that same evening William had teased her to let him wear a very valuable miniature that she possessed of your mother."
10356,"They should not die first I would be gathered to nothingness, ere infection should come anear these idols of my soul."
10357,"One instance of this kind came immediately under our notice, where a high born girl had in early youth given her heart to one of meaner extraction."
10358,"""This is better, Mamma,"" said Clara, ""than being in that dismal London, where you often cry, and never laugh as you do now."""
10359,"""Clever fellow"" said the Foreign."
10360,"She perished on the scaffold as a murderess From the tortures of my own heart, I turned to contemplate the deep and voiceless grief of my Elizabeth."
10361,"Love had come, as the rod of the master prophet, to swallow up every minor propensity."
10362,"The pause was but for a moment; the flood of association and natural feeling which had been checked, again rushed in full tide upon our hearts, and with tenderest emotion we were swiftly locked in each other's embrace."
10363,"It was a octopus, centipede, spider kind o' thing, but they was a haff shaped man's face on top of it, an' it looked like Wizard Whateley's, only it was yards an' yards acrost. . ."
10364,"The windows are narrow and deep, with very tiny panes and a great deal of sash."
10365,"A sister or a brother can never, unless indeed such symptoms have been shown early, suspect the other of fraud or false dealing, when another friend, however strongly he may be attached, may, in spite of himself, be contemplated with suspicion."
10366,"It was after my return from one of these rambles that my father, calling me aside, thus addressed me, ""I am happy to remark, my dear son, that you have resumed your former pleasures and seem to be returning to yourself."
10367,"""The days now passed as peaceably as before, with the sole alteration that joy had taken place of sadness in the countenances of my friends."
10368,"I hear and do strange things in sleep, and awake with a kind of exaltation instead of terror."
10369,"With him went enthusiasm, the high wrought resolve, the eye that without blenching could look at death."
10370,"On March d, the manuscript continued, Wilcox failed to appear; and inquiries at his quarters revealed that he had been stricken with an obscure sort of fever and taken to the home of his family in Waterman Street."
10371,"""That was before the big epidemic of , when over half the folks in Innsmouth was carried off."
10372,I recollect that I have been subject to catalepsy.
10373,"They are on the Duke's Wedding, and so much resemble in Quality the Work of other and more recent poetick Dunces, that I cannot forbear copying them: ""When the Duke of Leeds shall marry'd be To a fine young Lady of high Quality How happy will that Gentlewoman be In his Grace of Leeds' good Company."""
10374,"This ironical tone was discord to my bursting, over boiling heart; I was nettled by his insolence, and replied with bitterness; ""There is a spirit, neither angel or devil, damned to limbo merely."""
10375,"Arrangements were easily effected with some of the numerous corps of body snatchers, with which London abounds; and, upon the third night after the funeral, the supposed corpse was unearthed from a grave eight feet deep, and deposited in the opening chamber of one of the private hospitals."
10376,"Clara had passed the age which, from its mute ignorance, was the source of the fears of Idris."
10377,"why had it picked them, and left me for the last? . . ."
10378,"The cloak which I had worn was of a rare description of fur; how rare, how extravagantly costly, I shall not venture to say."
10379,"It seems probable that if, upon reaching the second stage, we could recall the impressions of the first, we should find these impressions eloquent in memories of the gulf beyond."
10380,"M. Waldman inflicted torture when he praised, with kindness and warmth, the astonishing progress I had made in the sciences."
10381,"Of the distance between the hamlet and the mansion, fully two miles and a quarter on the hamlet's side was entirely open country; the plain being of fairly level character save for some of the low snake like mounds, and having as vegetation only grass and scattered weeds."
10382,"When he and I obtained our degrees at the medical school of Miskatonic University, and sought to relieve our poverty by setting up as general practitioners, we took great care not to say that we chose our house because it was fairly well isolated, and as near as possible to the potter's field."
10383,To these qualities he united the warmest and truest heart which ever beat in a human bosom.
10384,"In all this, if I err not, my reason had little to do."
10385,"She looked at the hand writing, which she could not mistake, and repeated to herself the words ""Do not, I charge you, I entreat you, permit your guests to wonder at my absence:"" the while the old crone going on with her talk, filled her ear with a strange medley of truth and falsehood."
10386,"We feared the balmy air we feared the cloudless sky, the flower covered earth, and delightful woods, for we looked on the fabric of the universe no longer as our dwelling, but our tomb, and the fragrant land smelled to the apprehension of fear like a wide church yard."
10387,"I was enabled to discharge the onerous duties of this profession, only by that rigid adherence to system which formed the leading feature of my mind."
10388,"I pledge you the honor of a gentleman, and of a Frenchman, that we intend you no injury."
10389,Arrived at the same point of the world's age there was no difference in us; the name of parent and child had lost their meaning; young boys and girls were level now with men.
10390,"I had arrived at the abyss, which was now redly aglow, and which had evidently swallowed up the unfortunate Romero."
10391,"For a moment she remained trembling and reeling to and fro upon the threshold then, with a low moaning cry, fell heavily inward upon the person of her brother, and in her violent and now final death agonies, bore him to the floor a corpse, and a victim to the terrors he had anticipated."
10392,"At night the streets and the gardens are lit with gay lanthorns fashioned from the three coloured shell of the tortoise, and here resound the soft notes of the singer and the lutanist."
10393,"In this wall was a small, low arched gate of nail studded black oak, which the man proceeded to unlock with a ponderous key."
10394,"They was a party one night as follered Obed's craowd aout to the reef, an' I heerd shots betwixt the dories."
10395,"His clutch relaxed, and as he saw my disgust and offence his own anger seemed to subside."
10396,"In the ashes of the fateful cabin I found several bones, but apparently none of the monster's."
10397,"That afternoon we found the new grave, and determined to begin work soon after midnight."
10398,"As time passed and no discovery ensued, a thousand contradictory rumors were circulated, and journalists busied themselves in suggestions."
10399,"Our experiences had often been hideous in the extreme; the results of defective reanimation, when lumps of graveyard clay had been galvanised into morbid, unnatural, and brainless motion by various modifications of the vital solution."
10400,"In his glance there is not any restless light, and if he ever listens for solemn bells or far elfin horns it is only at night when old dreams are wandering."
10401,"Then he took me through a door on the left, lighted an oil lamp, and told me to make myself at home."
10402,"This winter has been passed most miserably, tortured as I have been by anxious suspense; yet I hope to see peace in your countenance and to find that your heart is not totally void of comfort and tranquillity."
10403,"Armitage, hastening into some clothing and rushing across the street and lawn to the college buildings, saw that others were ahead of him; and heard the echoes of a burglar alarm still shrilling from the library."
10404,"Later a queer boldness and recklessness came into my demeanour, till I unconsciously grew to possess the bearing of a man of the world despite my lifelong seclusion."
10405,"Elwood scarcely dared to touch him, but gradually the screaming and writhing subsided."
10406,"The road ran by the side of the lake, which became narrower as I approached my native town."
10407,"I distinguished several other words without being able as yet to understand or apply them, such as 'good,' 'dearest,' 'unhappy.'"
10408,"'The Literary World' speaks of him, confidently, as a native of Presburg misled, perhaps, by the account in 'The Home Journal' but I am pleased in being able to state positively, since I have it from his own lips, that he was born in Utica, in the State of New York, although both his parents, I believe, are of Presburg descent."
10409,"It was about a month after this and during the interval I had seen nothing of Legrand when I received a visit, at Charleston, from his man, Jupiter."
10410,"Although both the immediate and the predisposing causes, and even the actual diagnosis, of this disease are still mysterious, its obvious and apparent character is sufficiently well understood."
10411,"It was one which could not fail to impress itself deeply on my mind, unfolding as it did a number of circumstances, each interesting and wonderful to one so utterly inexperienced as I was."
10412,"The servant instantly showed it to one of the others, who, without saying a word to any of the family, went to a magistrate; and, upon their deposition, Justine was apprehended."
10413,"He seemed, too, to take an eager delight in its exercise if not exactly in its display and did not hesitate to confess the pleasure thus derived."
10414,A common white handkerchief found among forest rocks on the hillside beyond cannot be identified as belonging to the missing man.
10415,"Encouraged by this encomium, I proceeded, in answer to his inquiries, to relate what I remembered of my parent; and he gave an account of those circumstances which had brought about a neglect of my father's testamentary letter."
10416,"Whether I shall go as he did remains to be seen, for I have learned much now."
10417,"But out of this our cloud upon the precipice's edge, there grows into palpability, a shape, far more terrible than any genius or any demon of a tale, and yet it is but a thought, although a fearful one, and one which chills the very marrow of our bones with the fierceness of the delight of its horror."
10418,"And the bearded man again implored me to turn back, but I heeded him not; for from the mists beyond the basalt pillars I fancied there came the notes of singer and lutanist; sweeter than the sweetest songs of Sona Nyl, and sounding mine own praises; the praises of me, who had voyaged far under the full moon and dwelt in the Land of Fancy."
10419,"My father secured me a place in an insurance office, and I buried myself in routine as deeply as possible."
10420,The truth the tragedy of the drama was no more.
10421,All is then dependent upon the variable judgment of the players.
10422,I have also me and the earth.
10423,"They looked like strips torn off, and were on the thorn bush, about a foot from the ground....."
10424,Stuck out of a west window was a great black bearded face whose eyes shone phosphorescently with the imprint of unheard of sights.
10425,This idea was intolerably painful to him.
10426,"It could be best attached about the neck, where the head would prevent its slipping off."
10427,"These lights were seen as late as , but toward the last they became very infrequent."
10428,"He was calmer than I as he forced a large quantity of his fluid into a vein of the body's arm, immediately binding the incision securely."
10429,"Major Sir Eric Moreland Clapham Lee, D.S.O., was the greatest surgeon in our division, and had been hastily assigned to the St. Eloi sector when news of the heavy fighting reached headquarters."
10430,"No one can conceive the anguish I suffered during the remainder of the night, which I spent, cold and wet, in the open air."
10431,"Then we both tried together, and with exotic drugs courted terrible and forbidden dreams in the tower studio chamber of the old manor house in hoary Kent."
10432,"We will have many a rich laugh about it at the palazzo he he he over our wine he he he"" ""The Amontillado"" I said."
10433,There he worked like a butcher in the midst of his gory wares I could never get used to the levity with which he handled and classified certain things.
10434,"Even when a cannon is fired over a corpse, and it rises before at least five or six days' immersion, it sinks again if let alone.'"
10435,"Had they known, the coincidence of names would have brought some drastic and frightened action indeed, might not its limited whispering have precipitated the final riot which erased the Roulets from the town?"
10436,"And now a new anxiety seized me the sound would be heard by a neighbour The old man's hour had come With a loud yell, I threw open the lantern and leaped into the room."
10437,"Of genuine blood there was none; only the foetid greenish yellow ichor which trickled along the painted floor beyond the radius of the stickiness, and left a curious discolouration behind it."
10438,"The veil must be thicker than that invented by Turkish jealousy; the wall higher than the unscaleable tower of Vathek, which should conceal from her the workings of his heart, and hide from her view the secret of his actions."
10439,"When I had ceased to weep reason and memory returned upon me, and I began to reflect with greater calmness on what had happened, and how it became me to act A few hours only had passed but a mighty revolution had taken place with regard to me the natural work of years had been transacted since the morning: my father was as dead to me, and I felt for a moment as if he with white hairs were laid in his coffin and I youth vanished in approaching age, were weeping at his timely dissolution."
10440,"At times he actually did perform marvels of surgery for the soldiers; but his chief delights were of a less public and philanthropic kind, requiring many explanations of sounds which seemed peculiar even amidst that babel of the damned."
10441,"One evening as I strolled on Victoria Embankment for some needed air, I saw a black shape obscure one of the reflections of the lamps in the water."
10442,The cracked lips tried to frame words which I could not well understand.
10443,"An eye for an eye Great heavens, Birch, but you got what you deserved."
10444,"I wish to soothe him, yet can I counsel one so infinitely miserable, so destitute of every hope of consolation, to live?"
10445,"No one, however, had been using the telescope at that instant."
10446,"Then courage returned, and I scraped away more dirt in the light of the electric torch I had provided."
10447,"For a decade had it been talked of in the land of Mnar, and as it drew nigh there came to Sarnath on horses and camels and elephants men from Thraa, Ilarnek, and Kadatheron, and all the cities of Mnar and the lands beyond."
10448,A crow thieves; a fox cheats; a weasel outwits; a man diddles.
10449,"Dr. D resolved at once to remain with the patient all night, while Dr. F took leave with a promise to return at daybreak."
10450,"It was my design to convey the idea that both were effected in the same manner, at the same point."
10451,"This original correspondence was not preserved, but his notes formed a thorough and really significant digest."
10452,"The trunk had moved intelligently; and, unbelievable to relate, we were both sickeningly sure that articulate sounds had come from the detached head as it lay in a shadowy corner of the laboratory."
10453,"Outwardly he was the same to the last calm, cold, slight, and yellow haired, with spectacled blue eyes and a general aspect of youth which years and fears seemed never to change."
10454,"His haousekeeper Sally was carryin' on fit ter kill she'd jest seed the trees a bendin' beside the rud, an' says they was a kind o' mushy saound, like a elephant puffin' an' treadin', a headin' fer the haouse."
10455,"The murderers must have passed, then, through those of the back room."
10456,"Who would dare "" ""The thief,"" said G., ""is the Minister D , who dares all things, those unbecoming as well as those becoming a man."
10457,"Might he not many, many years hence, when age had quenched the burning sensations that he now experienced, might he not then be again a father to me?"
10458,"It was a dim, sliver like rim, alone, as it rushed down the unfathomable ocean."
10459,Very little time had elapsed before I saw the attempt was not to be a total failure.
10460,"When the fever of my young life is spent; when placid age shall tame the vulture that devours me, friendship may come, love and hope being dead."
10461,I cannot say with what passion I loved every thing even the inanimate objects that surrounded me.
10462,I had been too wary for that.
10463,It became a question whether he had fallen among the unrecognized; but no broken ornament or stained trapping betrayed his fate.
10464,"He was seldom at the palace; never, but when he was assured that his public duties would prevent his remaining alone with Perdita."
10465,"He staggered against the wall, while I closed the door with an oath, and commanded him to draw."
10466,"Had M. Beauvais, in his search for the body of Marie, discovered a corpse corresponding in general size and appearance to the missing girl, he would have been warranted without reference to the question of habiliment at all in forming an opinion that his search had been successful."
10467,"The thought came gently and stealthily, and it seemed long before it attained full appreciation; but just as my spirit came at length properly to feel and entertain it, the figures of the judges vanished, as if magically, from before me; the tall candles sank into nothingness; their flames went out utterly; the blackness of darkness supervened; all sensations appeared swallowed up in a mad rushing descent as of the soul into Hades."
10468,"He had sworn to quit the neighbourhood of man and hide himself in deserts, but she had not; and she, who in all probability was to become a thinking and reasoning animal, might refuse to comply with a compact made before her creation."
10469,You hold forth your hand; it is even as a part of yourself; and you do not yet divide the feeling of identity from the mortal form that shapes forth Lionel.
10470,"He declined bearing the cartel, however, and in fact, dissuaded me from sending it at all; but was candid enough to admit that the ""Daddy Long Legs"" had been disgracefully in the wrong more especially in what related to the epithets ""gentleman and scholar."""
10471,"In conclusion, I dwelt, with a convincing energy, upon the perils that encompass the course of love that course of true love that never did run smooth and thus deduced the manifest danger of rendering that course unnecessarily long."
10472,"Thus I might proclaim myself a madman, but not revoke the sentence passed upon my wretched victim."
10473,"'A piece,' says this journal, 'of one of the unfortunate girl's petticoats was torn out and tied under her chin, and around the back of her head, probably to prevent screams."
10474,"The thing itself, however, crowded out all other images at the time."
10475,"""These appearances, which bewilder you, are merely electrical phenomena not uncommon or it may be that they have their ghastly origin in the rank miasma of the tarn."
10476,"I barely fancied that as I awoke, a light had been hurriedly extinguished within the sunken sepulchre."
10477,Was sure that the shrill voice was that of a man of a Frenchman.
10478,"She was immensely wealthy, and being left, for the second time, a widow without children, she bethought herself of my existence in America, and for the purpose of making me her heir, paid a visit to the United States, in company with a distant and exceedingly lovely relative of her second husband's a Madame Stephanie Lalande."
10479,"Of this Infirmity, indeed, I had known before; having heard of it from Mr. Pope, who took the Trouble to make particular Inquiries."
10480,"They must have been very blind not to see this, even in their own day; for even in their own day many of the long ""established"" axioms had been rejected."
10481,"The dirty looking fellow who waited on me had a touch of the staring ""Innsmouth look"", but was quite civil in his way; being perhaps used to the custom of such convivial strangers truckmen, gold buyers, and the like as were occasionally in town."
10482,"At length, upon a peremptory call for ""Madame Lalande,"" she arose at once, without affectation or demur, from the chaise longue upon which she had sat by my side, and, accompanied by one or two gentlemen and her female friend of the opera, repaired to the piano in the main drawing room."
10483,"There had been aeons when other Things ruled on the earth, and They had had great cities."
10484,"The tracks of which I speak were but faintly perceptible having been impressed upon the firm, yet pleasantly moist surface of what looked more like green Genoese velvet than any thing else."
10485,Our friend here can surely comprehend you without all this.
10486,This was always at night in the day he slept and would admit no one.
10487,"Indeed, the Baron's perverse attachment to his lately acquired charger an attachment which seemed to attain new strength from every fresh example of the animal's ferocious and demon like propensities at length became, in the eyes of all reasonable men, a hideous and unnatural fervor."
10488,He wasn't strictly human.
10489,"It was from Kilderry that his father had come, and it was there that he wished to enjoy his wealth among ancestral scenes."
10490,"She fell, however, into good hands."
10491,An attempt to draw blood from the arm failed.
10492,"Look not behind thee, then, at its unavoidable degradation; but take courage, ply thy legs with vigor, and scud for the hippodrome Remember that thou art Antiochus Epiphanes."
10493,That inspector's story must have worked on my imagination more deeply than I had suspected.
10494,"And before he died, Taran Ish had scrawled upon the altar of chrysolite with coarse shaky strokes the sign of DOOM."
10495,"The stench left quickly, but the vegetation never came right again."
10496,"This bower was my temple, the fastened door my shrine, and here I would lie outstretched on the mossy ground, thinking strange thoughts and dreaming strange dreams."
10497,"One word first, my Una, in regard to man's general condition at this epoch."
10498,Posterity became my heirs.
10499,"At long intervals some masterminds appeared, looking upon each advance in practical science as a retro gradation in the true utility."
10500,"Being both, apparently, occupied with thought, neither of us had spoken a syllable for fifteen minutes at least."
10501,"If we allow that Madame Rogêt, from her age and grief, could not go over, which is allowing a great deal, there certainly must have been some one who would have thought it worth while to go over and attend the investigation, if they thought the body was that of Marie."
10502,"When I came of age my father asked me, one day, If I would step with him into his study."
10503,"This dwarf he supposed to conceal himself during the opening of the box by thrusting his legs into two hollow cylinders, which were represented to be but which are not among the machinery in the cupboard No. I, while his body was out of the box entirely, and covered by the drapery of the Turk."
10504,"Thar's his head on thet bench, with one arm side of it, an' t'other arm's on the graound side o' the meat block."""
10505,"demanded the youth, in a querulous and husky tone of voice, as he became instantly aware that the mysterious steed in the tapestried chamber was the very counterpart of the furious animal before his eyes."
10506,"Let us ascend this battlement, and throw our eyes upon the town and neighboring country."
10507,"Briden's death reveals no apparent cause, and was probably due to excitement or exposure."
10508,Don't ask me what it is they see.
10509,"Close by is a tomb, once beautiful with the sublimest sculptures, but now fallen into as great decay as the house."
10510,"Later I must have dropped asleep again, for it was out of a phantasmal chaos that my mind leaped when the night grew hideous with shrieks beyond anything in my former experience or imagination."
10511,These sublime and magnificent scenes afforded me the greatest consolation that I was capable of receiving.
10512,I therefore thought proper to contrive a hiding place in the hold.
10513,"I really do hope, Mr. Bob, that you will look upon this explanation as satisfactory."""
10514,"I continued: ""This poor wretch is deserted, dying, succourless; in these unhappy times, God knows how soon any or all of us may be in like want."
10515,"Without having any exact knowledge of geology, I had from the first been interested in the odd mounds and hummocks of the region."
10516,"No sane person had even seen it, and few had ever felt it definitely."
10517,I burned with rage to pursue the murderer of my peace and precipitate him into the ocean.
10518,"In another week the burgomaster decided to overcome his fears and call at the strangely silent dwelling as a matter of duty, though in so doing he was careful to take with him Shang the blacksmith and Thul the cutter of stone as witnesses."
10519,"His countenance instantly assumed an aspect of the deepest gloom, and he replied, ""To seek one who fled from me."" ""And did the man whom you pursued travel in the same fashion?"""
10520,"""For the most part, we are paid for the insertion of a maiden attempt especially in verse."
10521,In vain we besieged the old gentleman with importunities.
10522,"We met no person, and as time passed the lighted windows became fewer and fewer."
10523,"Here, the address, to the Minister, diminutive and feminine; there the superscription, to a certain royal personage, was markedly bold and decided; the size alone formed a point of correspondence."
10524,The whole transaction is denied.
10525,He mentioned Muriton of red tongue; cauliflowers with velouté sauce; veal à la St. Menehoult; marinade à la St. Florentin; and orange jellies en mosäiques.
10526,But West's gentle enemies were no less harassed with prostrating duties.
10527,"Nobody cud git aout o' them whar they got all the stuff, an' all the other natives wondered haow they managed to find fish in plenty even when the very next islands had lean pickin's."
10528,"It is natural that such a thing as a dead man's scream should give horror, for it is obviously not a pleasing or ordinary occurrence; but I was used to similar experiences, hence suffered on this occasion only because of a particular circumstance."
10529,Might not the deeper inquiries of my uncle after encountering the sculptor's data have come to sinister ears?
10530,"This gentleman had, indeed, some two or three years before, been the superintendent of the establishment, but grew crazy himself, and so became a patient."
10531,Then a rushing revival of soul and a successful effort to move.
10532,"The hour was one of approaching triumph, for was not my fellow being escaping at last from a degrading periodic bondage; escaping forever, and preparing to follow the accursed oppressor even unto the uttermost fields of ether, that upon it might be wrought a flaming cosmic vengeance which would shake the spheres?"
10533,"And if these were my sensations, who can describe those of Henry?"
10534,"The king, who was a man of excellent dispositions, but easily led, had now become a willing disciple of his imperious consort."
10535,"The men, busy with labour, waxed prosperous and as happy as they knew how to be."
10536,"Question me then, my Oinos, freely and without fear."
10537,"""Its adaptation to the eyes which were to behold it on earth."""
10538,"He could, he was sure, get out by midnight though it is characteristic of him that this thought was untinged with eerie implications."
10539,"It is palpably a part of the valley wall, though how the vast interior was ever excavated I cannot imagine."
10540,Was the coming painful?
10541,"After dark a rattling was heard at the door leading from the cellar into the courtyard; and a stable boy saw Arthur Jermyn, glistening from head to foot with oil and redolent of that fluid, steal furtively out and vanish on the black moor surrounding the house."
10542,"Adelaide Curtis, Albany, New York."
10543,With new vigour I applied myself to my examination of the old chateau and its contents.
10544,"And once but once again in the silence of the night; there came through my lattice the soft sighs which had forsaken me; and they modelled themselves into familiar and sweet voice, saying: ""Sleep in peace for the Spirit of Love reigneth and ruleth, and, in taking to thy passionate heart her who is Ermengarde, thou art absolved, for reasons which shall be made known to thee in Heaven, of thy vows unto Eleonora."""
10545,"""I cannot describe to you the agony that these reflections inflicted upon me; I tried to dispel them, but sorrow only increased with knowledge."
10546,"Seeking shelter from the increasing rainfall beneath one of the few undestroyed Frye outbuildings, they debated the wisdom of waiting, or of taking the aggressive and going down into the glen in quest of their nameless, monstrous quarry."
10547,"One sheet of white covered it, while bitter recollection told me that cold as the winter clothed earth, were the hearts of the inhabitants."
10548,"Excavation was much easier than I expected, though at one point I encountered a queer interruption; when a lean vulture darted down out of the cold sky and pecked frantically at the grave earth until I killed him with a blow of my spade."
10549,Its principle regards our well being; and thus the desire to be well is excited simultaneously with its development.
10550,"Innsmouth itself was left almost depopulated, and is even now only beginning to shew signs of a sluggishly revived existence."
10551,"They looked at the pictures, strolled into the other apartments, talked of billiards, and one by one vanished."
10552,"Others again, spoke confidently of a magnet."
10553,"On the contrary, I believe that I am well made, and possess what nine tenths of the world would call a handsome face."
10554,"How greatly this most exquisite portraiture harassed me, for it could not justly be termed a caricature, I will not now venture to describe."
10555,Then entire forgetfulness of all that followed; of all that a later day and much earnestness of endeavor have enabled me vaguely to recall.
10556,"Any one, indeed, might perceive, with half an eye, that, had the real design of the ""Daddy"" been what it wished to appear, it, the ""Daddy,"" might have expressed itself in terms more direct, more pungent, and altogether more to the purpose."
10557,"Zadok was shewing signs of fright and exhaustion, and I let him keep silence for a while, though glancing apprehensively at my watch."
10558,"What L'Etoile says in respect to this abbreviation of the garter's being an usual occurrence, shows nothing beyond its own pertinacity in error."
10559,"When I awoke it rained: I was already quite wet, and my limbs were stiff and my head giddy with the chill of night."
10560,"How kind, how very kind But where is he, why does he not hasten to me?"" My change of manner surprised and pleased the magistrate; perhaps he thought that my former exclamation was a momentary return of delirium, and now he instantly resumed his former benevolence."
10561,"And among the dead faces was the living, mocking face of the youth with the ivory image."
10562,"What had been hardly won, was now, entirely possessed, doubly dear."
10563,"So far, you had been stooping in your gait; but now I saw you draw yourself up to your full height."
10564,They left me in an hour's time.
10565,He carries the war into Africa.
10566,"Through long habit they had become a part of himself; his want of worldly knowledge, his absence of mind and infant guilelessness, made him utterly dependent on them."
10567,"Here, at the road side inn, or beneath the foliage of the woods, he indulges, unchecked by any eye except those of his boon companions, in all the mad excess of a counterfeit hilarity the joint offspring of liberty and of rum."
10568,"I am already far north of London, and as I walk in the streets of Petersburgh, I feel a cold northern breeze play upon my cheeks, which braces my nerves and fills me with delight."
10569,"All the genius that ennobled the blood of her father illustrated hers; a generous tide flowed in her veins; artifice, envy, or meanness, were at the antipodes of her nature; her countenance, when enlightened by amiable feeling, might have belonged to a queen of nations; her eyes were bright; her look fearless."
10570,"Let us now discover, upon the deceased, garters such as the living used, and it is almost folly to proceed."
10571,From this time a new spirit of life animated the decaying frame of the stranger.
10572,"Arose early, and, to my great joy, at length beheld what there could be no hesitation in supposing the northern Pole itself."
10573,The cut on this page gives a tolerable representation of the figure as seen by the citizens of Richmond a few weeks ago.
10574,"But the appearance of my father was to me like that of my good angel, and I gradually recovered my health."
10575,In odd contrast to the tiara's aspect was its brief and prosy history as related by Miss Tilton.
10576,"You will understand that I suggest nothing here as probable, or as cöincident with my own opinion."
10577,She now took pleasure in my society; towards Idris she felt and displayed a full and affectionate sense of her worth she restored to her child in abundant measure her tenderness and care.
10578,Never was such a place for keeping the true time.
10579,"Secure, however, in the inscrutability of my place of concealment, I felt no embarrassment whatever."
10580,"At four precisely, therefore, the carriage drew up at the door of the principal inn."
10581,"I had noticed that they were pretty widely distributed around Tempest Mountain, though less numerous on the plain than near the hill top itself, where prehistoric glaciation had doubtless found feebler opposition to its striking and fantastic caprices."
10582,As they reached the broad open space where I had had my first disquieting glimpse of the moonlit water I could see them plainly only a block away and was horrified by the bestial abnormality of their faces and the dog like sub humanness of their crouching gait.
10583,"On this deep bony layer rested a knife of great size, obvious antiquity, and grotesque, ornate, and exotic design above which the debris was piled."
10584,He was really the most finicky little personage that had ever been seen in Vondervotteimittiss.
10585,The assassin had escaped through the window which looked upon the bed.
10586,"He seemed to receive Hermann's amicable letter as a matter of course, and after a few words of general conversation, went to an inner room and brought out the everlasting treatise ""Duelli Lex scripta, et non; aliterque."""
10587,"Tillinghast was grinning repulsively at the revolver which I had almost unconsciously drawn, but from his expression I was sure he had seen and heard as much as I, if not a great deal more."
10588,"Also, he thinks some of the folks looks durned queer even fer Kanakys."
10589,"""I found myself at the foot of a high mountain, and looking down into a vast plain, through which wound a majestic river."
10590,"I next tried my hand at the Organ Grinding for a while, and may say that I made out pretty well."
10591,"He at length went on deck, and I saw him no more."
10592,"I have one secret, Elizabeth, a dreadful one; when revealed to you, it will chill your frame with horror, and then, far from being surprised at my misery, you will only wonder that I survive what I have endured."
10593,"It is soon done nothing but ""Examiner,"" ""Slang Whang,"" and ""Times"" then ""Times,"" ""Slang Whang,"" and ""Examiner"" and then ""Times,"" ""Examiner,"" and ""Slang Whang."""
10594,"As manhood dawned upon him, his schemes and theories, far from being changed by personal and prudential motives, acquired new strength from the powers he felt arise within him; and his love for Evadne became deep rooted, as he each day became more certain that the path he pursued was full of difficulty, and that he must seek his reward, not in the applause or gratitude of his fellow creatures, hardly in the success of his plans, but in the approbation of his own heart, and in her love and sympathy, which was to lighten every toil and recompence every sacrifice."
10595,"""My brother,"" she cried, ""protector of my childhood, dear, most dear Lionel, my fate hangs by a thread."
10596,"I must do him the justice to say, however, that when he made up his mind finally to settle in that town, it was under the impression that no newspaper, and consequently no editor, existed in that particular section of the country."
10597,"His blue eyes were bulging, glassy, and sightless, and the frantic playing had become a blind, mechanical, unrecognisable orgy that no pen could even suggest."
10598,"I threw up my hands and endeavored, with all my strength, to force upward the ponderous iron bar."
10599,"My own mistake arose, naturally enough, through too careless, too inquisitive, and too impulsive a temperament."
10600,"Still too dazed to cry out, he plunged recklessly down the noisome staircase and into the mud outside; halting only when seized and choked by the waiting black man."
10601,"""Yes,"" I said, ""let us be gone."""
10602,When I think of the extent of all that may be brooding down there I almost wish to kill myself forthwith.
10603,Yet active life was the genuine soil for his virtues; and he sometimes suffered tedium from the monotonous succession of events in our retirement.
10604,"I hastily gave my consent to this arrangement, and as hastily formed a plan through which Perdita should be forced to become my companion."
10605,My dreams were terrifically disturbed by visions of the Angel of the Odd.
10606,"My father, his face lined with sorrow, stood by as I shouted my demands to be laid within the tomb; frequently admonishing my captors to treat me as gently as they could."
10607,To the uttermost regions of the globe have not the indignant winds bruited its unparalleled infamy?
10608,I heard the phial break harmlessly against the stones of the passage as the tunic of the strange man caught fire and lit the horrid scene with a ghastly radiance.
10609,"It was about a foot square, and its Gothic carvings were so fearful that he did not marvel no person since Edmund Carter had dared to open it."
10610,"She, however, shunned society, and, attaching herself to me alone rendered me happy."
10611,"I no longer exhaust my miserable heart by bitter tears and frantic complaints; I no longer the sic reproach the sun, the earth, the air, for pain and wretchedness."
10612,"The latter part of his tale had kindled anew in me the anger that had died away while he narrated his peaceful life among the cottagers, and as he said this I could no longer suppress the rage that burned within me."
10613,"The pines are not tall or luxuriant, but they are sombre and add an air of severity to the scene."
10614,We shall have a glimpse of his person as he passes by the temple of Ashimah.
10615,In the university whither I was going I must form my own friends and be my own protector.
10616,"The pomp of rank, the assumption of power, the possessions of wealth vanished like morning mist."
10617,This action of Adrian provoked me.
10618,"""When the news reached Leghorn that Felix was deprived of his wealth and rank, the merchant commanded his daughter to think no more of her lover, but to prepare to return to her native country."
10619,Could it be that I was face to face with intellectual emanations which would explain the mystery if I could but learn to discover and read them?
10620,"But we must live, and not act our lives; pursuing the shadow, I lost the reality now I renounce both."
10621,"Well, we removed to London, and still I felt only the peace of sinless passion."
10622,"For one hour at least we had maintained a profound silence; while each, to any casual observer, might have seemed intently and exclusively occupied with the curling eddies of smoke that oppressed the atmosphere of the chamber."
10623,"I now felt the floor of this lower room giving as that of the upper chamber had done, and once a crashing above had been followed by the fall past the west window of something which must have been the cupola."
10624,"What is it you fear?"" ""Oh Peace, peace, my love,"" replied I; ""this night, and all will be safe; but this night is dreadful, very dreadful."""
10625,"He had not dared to peer, he told Mazurewicz, after he had glimpsed that light through the cracks around the door."
10626,"In five minutes the whole sea, as far as Vurrgh, was lashed into ungovernable fury; but it was between Moskoe and the coast that the main uproar held its sway."
10627,"Here he finds, among other odd things, that the people enjoy extreme happiness; that they have no law; that they die without pain; that they are from ten to thirty feet in height; that they live five thousand years; that they have an emperor called Irdonozur; and that they can jump sixty feet high, when, being out of the gravitating influence, they fly about with fans."
10628,The officers bade me accompany them in their search.
10629,And on what remained of his chewed and gouged head there was no longer a face.
10630,"Sometimes he commanded his countenance and tones and related the most horrible incidents with a tranquil voice, suppressing every mark of agitation; then, like a volcano bursting forth, his face would suddenly change to an expression of the wildest rage as he shrieked out imprecations on his persecutor."
10631,"The little patches of snow which yet lingered on the northern sides of the mountains, the lakes, and the dashing of the rocky streams were all familiar and dear sights to me."
10632,"Adrian was on horseback; he rode up to the carriage, and his gaiety, in addition to that of Raymond, dispelled my sister's melancholy."
10633,"Were your sister indeed the insignificant person she deserves to be, I would willingly leave her to the fate, the wretched fate, of the wife of a man, whose very person, resembling as it does his wretched father, ought to remind you of the folly and vice it typifies but remember, Lady Idris, it is not alone the once royal blood of England that colours your veins, you are a Princess of Austria, and every life drop is akin to emperors and kings."
10634,"In general, every spectator is now thoroughly satisfied of having beheld and completely scrutinized, at one and the same time, every individual portion of the Automaton, and the idea of any person being concealed in the interior, during so complete an exhibition of that interior, if ever entertained, is immediately dismissed as preposterous in the extreme."
10635,"The coroner's physician decided that some belonged to a small child, while certain others found mixed with shreds of rotten brownish cloth belonged to a rather undersized, bent female of advanced years."
10636,"Its bottom and banks were as those of the pond if a defect could have been attributed, in point of picturesqueness, it was that of excessive neatness."
10637,"His eyes were pits of flame, and they glared at me with what I now saw was overwhelming hatred."
10638,"I then smiled gaily, to find the deed so far done."
10639,No delay was to ensue.
10640,"Again she looked at the ring, it was a small ruby, almost heart shaped, which she had herself given him."
10641,"He saluted me with an air of profound respect, slightly blended with a fatherly and patronizing admiration, wrought in him, no doubt, by my appearance of extreme youth and inexperience."
10642,The phantasmagoric effect was vastly heightened by the artificial introduction of a strong continual current of wind behind the draperies giving a hideous and uneasy animation to the whole.
10643,"Looking upward he saw three stupendous discs of flame, each of a different hue, and at a different height above an infinitely distant curving horizon of low mountains."
10644,"When Sir Robert Jermyn emerged from his library he left behind the strangled corpse of the explorer, and before he could be restrained, had put an end to all three of his children; the two who were never seen, and the son who had run away."
10645,"With riches merely surpassing those of any citizen, it would have been easy to suppose him engaging to supreme excess in the fashionable extravagances of his time; or busying himself with political intrigues; or aiming at ministerial power, or purchasing increase of nobility, or devising gorgeous architectural piles; or collecting large specimens of Virtu; or playing the munificent patron of Letters and Art; or endowing and bestowing his name upon extensive institutions of charity."
10646,"By the mother who bore you for the love of Heaven by your hope of salvation, I implore you to put back for the box"" The captain, for a moment, seemed touched by the earnest appeal of the artist, but he regained his stern composure, and merely said: ""Mr."
10647,"The season was May, the weather stormless; we were promised a prosperous voyage."
10648,"Surely, man had never before so terribly altered, in so brief a period, as had Roderick Usher It was with difficulty that I could bring myself to admit the identity of the wan being before me with the companion of my early boyhood."
10649,I struggled for breath.
10650,He might remain in Switzerland and wreak his vengeance on my relatives.
10651,"I can recall the scene now the desolate, pitch black garret studio under the eaves with the rain beating down; the ticking of the lone clock; the fancied ticking of our watches as they rested on the dressing table; the creaking of some swaying shutter in a remote part of the house; certain distant city noises muffled by fog and space; and worst of all the deep, steady, sinister breathing of my friend on the couch a rhythmical breathing which seemed to measure moments of supernal fear and agony for his spirit as it wandered in spheres forbidden, unimagined, and hideously remote."
10652,"The items of evidence and information thus collected by myself, from the newspapers, at the suggestion of Dupin, embraced only one more point but this was a point of seemingly vast consequence."
10653,"That last scare had come while I was reaching to uncurl it, and it seems I had vacantly crumpled it into my pocket."
10654,"It must, however, have been no inconsiderable time, for when I partially recovered the sense of existence, I found the day breaking, the balloon at a prodigious height over a wilderness of ocean, and not a trace of land to be discovered far and wide within the limits of the vast horizon."
10655,"It was agreed that, immediately after our union, we should proceed to Villa Lavenza and spend our first days of happiness beside the beautiful lake near which it stood."
10656,"Yet I cannot conceal it from my own perception that, immediately subsequent to the fall of the ruby drops, a rapid change for the worse took place in the disorder of my wife; so that, on the third subsequent night, the hands of her menials prepared her for the tomb, and on the fourth, I sat alone, with her shrouded body, in that fantastic chamber which had received her as my bride."
10657,"Ceasing my futile and now objectless writhing, I watched the spectators as they viewed the treasure trove, and was permitted to share in their discoveries."
10658,The sprightly parties broke up they assembled in whispering groups.
10659,My affections were human; hope and love were the day stars of my life.
10660,"He cut himself off hurriedly, and no amount of persuasion or subtlety could elicit more in this direction."
10661,"There are not many persons who know what wonders are opened to them in the stories and visions of their youth; for when as children we listen and dream, we think but half formed thoughts, and when as men we try to remember, we are dulled and prosaic with the poison of life."
10662,"Clerval at first attributed my unusual spirits to joy on his arrival, but when he observed me more attentively, he saw a wildness in my eyes for which he could not account, and my loud, unrestrained, heartless laughter frightened and astonished him."
10663,The best chess player in Christendom may be little more than the best player of chess; but proficiency in whist implies capacity for success in all those more important undertakings where mind struggles with mind.
10664,"He quickly arranged with the Turk that if the latter should find a favourable opportunity for escape before Felix could return to Italy, Safie should remain as a boarder at a convent at Leghorn; and then, quitting the lovely Arabian, he hastened to Paris and delivered himself up to the vengeance of the law, hoping to free De Lacey and Agatha by this proceeding."
10665,"With an heavy heart I entered the palace, and stood fearful to advance, to speak, to look."
10666,"Often all sounds were suspended, that we might listen to the nightingale, while the fire flies danced in bright measure, and the soft cooing of the aziolo spoke of fair weather to the travellers."
10667,"The only thing to do was to cross it boldly and openly; imitating the typical shamble of the Innsmouth folk as best I could, and trusting that no one or at least no pursuer of mine would be there."
10668,"God knows, though, that the prosy tale which George Birch's death permits me to tell has in it aspects beside which some of our darkest tragedies are light."
10669,He died without speaking.
10670,"All the terror I had dimly felt before rushed upon me actively and vividly, and I knew that I loathed the ancient and abhorrent creature so near me with an infinite intensity."
10671,"See ""Chemical Essays,"" vol v. Our books the books which, for years, had formed no small portion of the mental existence of the invalid were, as might be supposed, in strict keeping with this character of phantasm."
10672,"Shrouded in mist they were, so that no man might peer beyond them or see their summits which indeed some say reach even to the heavens."
10673,"But, if you are seen thus strangely circumstanced, dear Idris, even now your enemies may learn your flight too soon: were it not better that I hired the chaise alone?"
10674,Our friend resolved however not to be foiled in his wish.
10675,"The eye wandered from object to object, and rested upon none neither the grotesques of the Greek painters, nor the sculptures of the best Italian days, nor the huge carvings of untutored Egypt."
10676,"In the flourishing times of the Roman Empire, it was the ordinary station of the prefect of the eastern provinces; and many of the emperors of the queen city among whom may be mentioned, especially, Verus and Valens spent here the greater part of their time."
10677,"For example, if this limit were three minutes, the moves of the Automaton might be made at any given intervals longer than three minutes."
10678,My senses were gratified and refreshed by a thousand scents of delight and a thousand sights of beauty.
10679,"But he requested my attention particularly, and with an air of mysterious sagacity, to a thick octavo, written in barbarous Latin by one Hedelin, a Frenchman, and having the quaint title, ""Duelli Lex Scripta, et non; aliterque."""
10680,"I resolved to lash myself securely to the water cask upon which I now held, to cut it loose from the counter, and to throw myself with it into the water."
10681,"They sat, and while I answered cheerily, they chatted of familiar things."
10682,"""Well, Jupiter picked up the parchment, wrapped the beetle in it, and gave it to me."
10683,In a moment she was in his arms.
10684,"I dare not hope that I have inspired you with sufficient interest that the thought of me, and the affection that I shall ever bear you, will soften your melancholy and decrease the bitterness of your tears."
10685,"Soon after finishing the perusal of this description, he took his departure, more entirely depressed in spirits than I had ever known the good gentleman before."
10686,His action was alternately vivacious and sullen.
10687,"At the expiration of this term it was opened for the reception of a sarcophagus; but, alas how fearful a shock awaited the husband, who, personally, threw open the door As its portals swung outwardly back, some white apparelled object fell rattling within his arms."
10688,"And the bearded man made enigmatical gestures of prayer, and lit tall candles in curiously wrought brass candlesticks."
10689,"During our stay at Naples, we often returned to this cave, sometimes alone, skimming the sun lit sea, and each time added to our store."
10690,"""Presently two countrymen passed by, but pausing near the cottage, they entered into conversation, using violent gesticulations; but I did not understand what they said, as they spoke the language of the country, which differed from that of my protectors."
10691,"When the stream is most boisterous, and its fury heightened by a storm, it is dangerous to come within a Norway mile of it."
10692,"It was in those college days that he had begun his terrible experiments, first on small animals and then on human bodies shockingly obtained."
10693,"""I don't know any such thing, you huzzy How should I? I think it only makes the matter more remarkable, Doctor Dubble L. Dee "" KATE."
10694,"Many days they travelled, and from afar saw lofty Hatheg Kla with his aureole of mournful mist."
10695,"Keeping these impressions in view, I was cautious in what I said before the young lady; for I could not be sure that she was sane; and, in fact, there was a certain restless brilliancy about her eyes which half led me to imagine she was not."
10696,"Imagination, feeling herself for once unshackled, roamed at will among the ever changing wonders of a shadowy and unstable land."
10697,"The glare of flames attested the progress of destruction, while, during mingled light and obscurity, the piles around me took gigantic proportions and weird shapes."
10698,"He spoke upon this topic with warmth: regarding not so much its immediate or obvious importance, which is little, as the character of the conclusions to which it might lead, or of the collateral propositions which it might serve to corroborate or sustain."
10699,"His wife he had newly married, and I had never yet seen her."
10700,"It was spacious, and nearly circular, with a raised seat of stone, about the size of a Grecian couch, at one end."
10701,Two years had now nearly elapsed since the night on which he first received life; and was this his first crime?
10702,"Among men, my Agathos, this idea would be considered heretical in the extreme."
10703,"A slight circumstance induced me to alter my usual route, and to return home by Egham and Bishopgate."
10704,"""When a gen'l'man wants tuh take a drink here, by God, he shall, without you interferin'."
10705,"You accuse me of murder, and yet you would, with a satisfied conscience, destroy your own creature."
10706,"""In this expedition to the 'Bishop's Hotel' I had been attended by Jupiter, who had, no doubt, observed, for some weeks past, the abstraction of my demeanor, and took especial care not to leave me alone."
10707,"Later I told Harris only through sheer necessity, and because he had heard odd tales from old people which disposed him ever so little toward belief."
10708,"His ears were ringing horribly, as if with the residual echoes of some horrible noise heard in dreams."
10709,But Johansen had not given out yet.
10710,"And then, again, the frog man croaked away as if the salvation of his soul depended upon every note that he uttered."
10711,"On the floor was an ingrain carpet, of excellent texture a white ground, spotted with small circular green figures."
10712,"I leave a sad and bitter world; and if you remember me and think of me as of one unjustly condemned, I am resigned to the fate awaiting me."
10713,"Kuranes was now very anxious to return to minaret studded Celephaïs, and increased his doses of drugs; but eventually he had no more money left, and could buy no drugs."
10714,"Barzai was wise in the lore of earth's gods, and listened hard for certain sounds, but Atal felt the chill of the vapours and the awe of the night, and feared much."
10715,"I heard Zann stumble to the window and close both shutter and sash, then stumble to the door, which he falteringly unfastened to admit me."
10716,"The christians sought their churches, christian maidens, even at the feast of roses, clad in white, with shining veils, sought, in long procession, the places consecrated to their religion, filling the air with their hymns; while, ever and anon, from the lips of some poor mourner in the crowd, a voice of wailing burst, and the rest looked up, fancying they could discern the sweeping wings of angels, who passed over the earth, lamenting the disasters about to fall on man."
10717,"It might be in the visible world, yet it might be only in his mind and soul."
10718,"I knew that I could not accost him then and there, for the firemen would surely notice and object."
10719,"In the first place, the voice seemed to reach our ears at least mine from a vast distance, or from some deep cavern within the earth."
10720,"But the main substance rests on the truths contained in these poetic rhapsodies, and the divine intuition which the Cumaean damsel obtained from heaven."
10721,This was done with the obvious design of affording a handle by which to carry the body.
10722,"The reproaches which agony extorted; or worse, cureless, uncomplaining depression, when his mind was sunk in a torpor, not the less painful because it was silent and moveless."
10723,"Cherishing the most fervent hopes, embarked on the waste ocean, we saw with delight the receding shore of Britain, and on the wings of desire outspeeded our well filled sails towards the South."
10724,"The ""Mole"" spoke of the ""Lollipop"" as follows: ""We have just received the 'Lollipop' for October, and must say that never before have we perused any single number of any periodical which afforded us a felicity so supreme."
10725,Our prime festivals were held in Perdita's cottage; nor were we ever weary of talking of the past or dreaming of the future.
10726,"I shrank from amid them, and, swiftly, by a circuitous path, reached and entered the city."
10727,The vacuity his heart endured of any deep interest in life during his long absence from his native country had had a singular effect upon his ideas.
10728,"It was silently taken to the barge office, and as silently removed."
10729,"""Don't move,"" he cautioned, ""for in these rays we are able to be seen as well as to see."
10730,"Moreover, to this day the people of Ulthar and Nir and Hatheg fear eclipses, and pray by night when pale vapours hide the mountain top and the moon."
10731,"And yet as one reared in the best Kultur of Prussia I should not have been amazed, for geology and tradition alike tell us of great transpositions in oceanic and continental areas."
10732,I am in a strange state of mind.
10733,"I did not like everything about what I saw, and felt again the fear I had had."
10734,"But, in truth, I had no reason to believe that with the exception of the matter of relationship, and in the case of Wilson himself, this similarity had ever been made a subject of comment, or even observed at all by our schoolfellows."
10735,"I passed through scenes familiar to my youth, but which I had not seen for nearly six years."
10736,"And the tomb where you put those bones, and the other grave without an inscription the whole thing must be a bit terrible."""
10737,"Gilman's handling of this theme filled everyone with admiration, even though some of his hypothetical illustrations caused an increase in the always plentiful gossip about his nervous and solitary eccentricity."
10738,"South of the village one may still spy the cellar walls and chimney of the ancient Bishop house, which was built before ; whilst the ruins of the mill at the falls, built in , form the most modern piece of architecture to be seen."
10739,"This, I thought, was the moment of decision, which was to rob me of or bestow happiness on me forever."
10740,"Turn up your nose at things in general, and when you let slip any thing a little too absurd, you need not be at the trouble of scratching it out, but just add a footnote and say that you are indebted for the above profound observation to the 'Kritik der reinem Vernunft,' or to the 'Metaphysithe Anfongsgrunde der Noturwissenchaft.'"
10741,"Soon after, I entered the valley of Chamounix."
10742,"The present season was indeed divine; the flowers of spring bloomed in the hedges, while those of summer were already in bud."
10743,"Women bear with resignation these long drawn ills, but to a man's impatient spirit, the slow motion of our cavalcade, the melancholy repose we took at noon, the perpetual presence of the pall, gorgeous though it was, that wrapt the rifled casket which had contained Raymond, the monotonous recurrence of day and night, unvaried by hope or change, all the circumstances of our march were intolerable."
10744,"Besides, I wish at once to tell you my wishes and expectations, and then never again to revert to so painful a subject."
10745,"Some few ottomans and golden candelabra, of Eastern figure, were in various stations about and there was the couch, too bridal couch of an Indian model, and low, and sculptured of solid ebony, with a pall like canopy above."
10746,"In the days of my grandfather there were many; in the days of my father not so many; and now there are so few that I sometimes feel strangely alone, as though I were the last man on our planet."
10747,The thing which had probably caught my first subconscious glance and supplied the touch of bizarre horror was the tall tiara he wore; an almost exact duplicate of the one Miss Tilton had shewn me the previous evening.
10748,I called him my friend but I viewed all he did with jealous eyes.
10749,But from the first move in the game of chess no especial second move follows of necessity.
10750,"At the Y.M.C.A., where I was stopping, the clerk merely discouraged my going to such a dismal, decadent place; and the people at the library shewed much the same attitude."
10751,"When unopposed they spread their ravages wide; in cases of danger they clustered, and by dint of numbers overthrew their weak and despairing foes."
10752,There is no slipping apparent.
10753,"While Merrival was talking, Clara softly opened a door behind Idris, and beckoned me to come with a gesture and look of grief."
10754,"We go on, each thought linked to the one which was its parent, each act to a previous act."
10755,"When he had landed a month ago, the noisy populace had been hushed by sorrow and fear; but this was a festival day to all."
10756,"All day I forged steadily westward, guided by a far away hummock which rose higher than any other elevation on the rolling desert."
10757,And over all rose thoughts and fears which centred in the youth from the sea and the ivory image whose carving was duplicated on the frieze and columns of the temple before me.
10758,An increasing and unexplained atmosphere of panic seemed to rise around his apartment.
10759,"It grew quicker and quicker, and louder and louder every instant."
10760,"Tucked obscurely away in a corner of the Arkham Advertiser was a facetious little item from the Associated Press, telling what a record breaking monster the bootleg whiskey of Dunwich had raised up."
10761,"It undulated too much, and glistened too brightly in the rays of the now westering moon."
10762,"Whether or not he will ever come back, I cannot say."
10763,"There were no visible houses, and I could tell by the state of the road that traffic was very light hereabouts."
10764,"The mathematics afford no more absolute demonstrations, than the sentiment of his Art yields to the artist."
10765,"""The moon had disappeared from the night, and again, with a lessened form, showed itself, while I still remained in the forest."
10766,"Ashy pale, Raymond and Perdita sat apart, looking on with sad smiles."
10767,I should rather have looked to see the things all lying on the ground and trampled under foot.
10768,"It was the Marchesa Aphrodite the adoration of all Venice the gayest of the gay the most lovely where all were beautiful but still the young wife of the old and intriguing Mentoni, and the mother of that fair child, her first and only one, who now, deep beneath the murky water, was thinking in bitterness of heart upon her sweet caresses, and exhausting its little life in struggles to call upon her name."
10769,"When, after infinities of chaos, the first men came, the Great Old Ones spoke to the sensitive among them by moulding their dreams; for only thus could Their language reach the fleshly minds of mammals."
10770,"It consists of little else than the sea sand, and is about three miles long."
10771,"I then took up three planks from the flooring of the chamber, and deposited all between the scantlings."
10772,"Now slowly sinking into a lyre back chair, he commenced to eye me intently."
10773,"Here, take it back, and give me a glass of brandy and water in its place."""
10774,"Entering, I began to use my flashlight, and was almost knocked down by the cloud of bats that flapped past me."
10775,"It was remarkable, as well for its color, as from its being the first we had seen since our departure from Batavia."
10776,"Our lives will not be happy, but they will be harmless and free from the misery I now feel."
10777,"A very large mastiff seemed to be in vigilant attendance upon these animals, each and all."
10778,"Loathsomeness waits and dreams in the deep, and decay spreads over the tottering cities of men."
10779,"Yet its memory was replete with horror horror more horrible from being vague, and terror more terrible from ambiguity."
10780,"Previously indifferent to such things, I had now an unspeakable horror of them; and would retire to the innermost recesses of the house whenever the heavens threatened an electrical display."
10781,"""Last Thursday May th, I, my niece, and your two brothers, went to walk in Plainpalais."
10782,"Almost spent, as I was, by fatigue and the dreadful suspense I endured for several hours, this sudden certainty of life rushed like a flood of warm joy to my heart, and tears gushed from my eyes."
10783,"But the treatise had made an indelible impression on my mind, and, as I sauntered along the dusky streets, I revolved carefully over in my memory the wild and sometimes unintelligible reasonings of the writer."
10784,The sounds of life encompass his path.
10785,Only one dog remained alive; but there was a human being within it whom the sailors were persuading to enter the vessel.
10786,"You say, ""in general."""
10787,Then came the steady rattling at the back door.
10788,I made the attempt in vain.
10789,The officers were satisfied.
10790,"These are not only manifold but multiform, and lie frequently among recesses of thought altogether inaccessible to the ordinary understanding."
10791,Kepler guessed that is to say imagined.
10792,"I have resolved every night, when I am not imperatively occupied by my duties, to record, as nearly as possible in his own words, what he has related during the day."
10793,"To be sure, it has a circulation of , and its subscription list has increased one half within the last week, but then the sum it disburses, monthly, for contributions, is astoundingly enormous."
10794,"But this account, which might as properly belong to a former period of my life as to the present moment, leads me far afield."
10795,"Rushing through the newly opened connexion, I succeeded in bolting the northerly hall door before the lock could be turned; but even as I did so I heard the hall door of the third room the one from whose window I had hoped to reach the roof below being tried with a pass key."
10796,"Once I thrust a candle within the nearly closed entrance, but could see nothing save a flight of damp stone steps leading downward."
10797,"Whence he came, I never ascertained."
10798,"Despite weakness, hunger, horror, and bewilderment I found myself after a long time able to walk; so started slowly along the muddy road to Rowley."
10799,"The eyelids, transparent and bloodless, offered no complete impediment to vision."
10800,"The fear, however, is an old tradition throughout the neighbouring villages; since it is a prime topic in the simple discourse of the poor mongrels who sometimes leave their valleys to trade hand woven baskets for such primitive necessities as they cannot shoot, raise, or make."
10801,Heard distinctly 'sacré' and 'mon Dieu.'
10802,"I was easily led by the sympathy which he evinced to use the language of my heart, to give utterance to the burning ardour of my soul and to say, with all the fervour that warmed me, how gladly I would sacrifice my fortune, my existence, my every hope, to the furtherance of my enterprise."
10803,You may say any thing and every thing approaching to 'bread and butter.'
10804,P. Referring to my notes.
10805,"On May Eve of there were tremors which even the Aylesbury people felt, whilst the following Hallowe'en produced an underground rumbling queerly synchronised with bursts of flame ""them witch Whateleys' doin's"" from the summit of Sentinel Hill."
10806,"For a moment the poor girl fancied that her mother believed that she had drank poison: she was on the point of springing up; when the Countess, already at a distance from the bed, spoke in a low voice to her companion, and again Idris listened: ""Hasten,"" said she, ""there is no time to lose it is long past eleven; they will be here at five; take merely the clothes necessary for her journey, and her jewel casket."""
10807,"Idle folk, indeed, said that Kalos conversed with the spirits of the grove, and that his statues were but images of the fauns and dryads he met there for he patterned his work after no living model."
10808,This determination soothed me.
10809,"The plague was not in London alone, it was every where it came on us, as Ryland had said, like a thousand packs of wolves, howling through the winter night, gaunt and fierce."
10810,"His dress is scrupulously neat, but plain, unostentatious."
10811,"Then he handed the instrument to Morgan, whose sight was keener."
10812,"But like all other gifts of the Creator to Man, she is mortal; her life has attained its last hour."
10813,"We talked of change and active pursuits, but still remained at Windsor, incapable of violating the charm that attached us to our secluded life."
10814,"But in consideration of those rights to which as guests and strangers you may feel yourselves entitled, we will furthermore explain that we are here this night, prepared by deep research and accurate investigation, to examine, analyze, and thoroughly determine the indefinable spirit the incomprehensible qualities and nature of those inestimable treasures of the palate, the wines, ales, and liqueurs of this goodly metropolis: by so doing to advance not more our own designs than the true welfare of that unearthly sovereign whose reign is over us all, whose dominions are unlimited, and whose name is 'Death'."""
10815,"So I read again that hideous chapter, and shuddered doubly because it was indeed not new to me."
10816,"No longer could he share the peculiarities and prejudices of the Martenses, while the very mountain thunderstorms failed to intoxicate him as they had before."
10817,"Towards the end of this interview with Mr. Crab, who really appeared to take a paternal interest in my welfare, he suggested to me that I might turn an honest penny, and, at the same time, advance my reputation, by occasionally playing Thomas Hawk for the ""Lollipop."""
10818,"My imagination hung upon the scene of recognition; his miniature, which I should continually wear exposed on my breast, would be the means and I imaged the moment to my mind a thousand and a thousand times, perpetually varying the circumstances."
10819,"""Thank you, no,"" I replied; ""to say the truth, I am not particularly partial to veal a la St. what is it?"
10820,Neither he nor his son Archer knew of the shunned house as other than a nuisance almost impossible to rent perhaps on account of the mustiness and sickly odour of unkempt old age.
10821,"We were all equal now; magnificent dwellings, luxurious carpets, and beds of down, were afforded to all."
10822,"Then men in olive drab came, bearing muskets; till it seemed as if in its sad sleep The Street must have some haunting dreams of those other days, when musket bearing men in conical hats walked along it from the woodland spring to the cluster of houses by the beach."
10823,"Both, though, agreed that they must leave this ancient and accursed house as soon as it could be arranged."
10824,"And hourly grew darker these shadows of similitude, and more full, and more definite, and more perplexing, and more hideously terrible in their aspect."
10825,I cannot rule myself.
10826,"Having effected the reunion of Raymond and Perdita, I was eager to return to England; but his earnest request, added to awakening curiosity, and an indefinable anxiety to behold the catastrophe, now apparently at hand, in the long drawn history of Grecian and Turkish warfare, induced me to consent to prolong until the autumn, the period of my residence in Greece."
10827,All things are either good or bad by comparison.
10828,"When I found this, I resolved to quit the place that I had hitherto inhabited, to seek for one where the few wants I experienced would be more easily satisfied."
10829,"But, at this period, the whole scheme of my existence was about to change."
10830,"Old Bugs himself seemed also to belong to the past, for his nondescript clothing bore every hallmark of antiquity."
10831,"Above, the leaves of the beech wood cast a flickering shadow on his face, and waved in mournful melody over him I saw all these things and said, ""Aye, this is his grave"" And then I wept aloud, and raised my eyes to heaven to entreat for a respite to my despair and an alleviation for his unnatural suffering the tears that gushed in a warm healing stream from my eyes relieved the burthen that oppressed my heart almost to madness."
10832,Men lived; and died individually.
10833,"""From what I have already observed,"" said Ellison, ""you will understand that I reject the idea, here expressed, of recalling the original beauty of the country."
10834,"There, the dark, tall statures of the Princes Metzengerstein their muscular war coursers plunging over the carcasses of fallen foes startled the steadiest nerves with their vigorous expression; and here, again, the voluptuous and swan like figures of the dames of days gone by, floated away in the mazes of an unreal dance to the strains of imaginary melody."
10835,"It is not reassuring to see, on a closer glance, that most of the houses are deserted and falling to ruin, and that the broken steepled church now harbours the one slovenly mercantile establishment of the hamlet."
10836,"This was the first commencement of my friendship with Adrian, and I must commemorate this day as the most fortunate of my life."
10837,Had he signed the black man's book after all?
10838,"The gait of my friend was unsteady, and the bells upon his cap jingled as he strode."
10839,"There had been soft talking, too and as he began to describe it his voice had sunk to an inaudible whisper."
10840,"Of this latter point, however, I am scarcely qualified to judge; for it was just dark as we arrived; and in American mansions of the better sort lights seldom, during the heat of summer, make their appearance at this, the most pleasant period of the day."
10841,"""Time and tide wait for no man,"" says the captain."
10842,"There were rumblings under the hills that night, and the whippoorwills piped threateningly."
10843,"All traces of strange dreaming had vanished with his recovery, and my uncle kept no record of his night thoughts after a week of pointless and irrelevant accounts of thoroughly usual visions."
10844,No distinct ideas occupied my mind; all was confused.
10845,"In the small hours of that night he slept a little in an easy chair in his office, but was at the manuscript again before dawn."
10846,He must ask Frank Elwood for help.
10847,"Dupin seemed singularly interested in the progress of this affair at least so I judged from his manner, for he made no comments."
10848,"Cursed, cursed be the fiend that brought misery on his grey hairs and doomed him to waste in wretchedness He could not live under the horrors that were accumulated around him; the springs of existence suddenly gave way; he was unable to rise from his bed, and in a few days he died in my arms."
10849,I regarded the sweet mouth.
10850,"At length, as often happens to the sleeper by sleep and its world alone is Death imaged at length, as sometimes happened on Earth to the deep slumberer, when some flitting light half startled him into awaking, yet left him half enveloped in dreams so to me, in the strict embrace of the Shadow came that light which alone might have had power to startle the light of enduring Love."
10851,"Yet none of the defaced human forms which I distinguished, could be Raymond; so I turned my eyes away, while my heart sickened within me."
10852,"As the images that floated before me became more distinct, I grew feverish; a darkness pressed around me; no one was near me who soothed me with the gentle voice of love; no dear hand supported me."
10853,"When the stars were right, They could plunge from world to world through the sky; but when the stars were wrong, They could not live."
10854,"He is an exceedingly puffy little old gentleman, with big circular eyes and a huge double chin."
10855,Yet he seemed not so much sulky as abstracted.
10856,"For a moment I even fancied that I had misconceived him, and that he was in sober earnest."
10857,"A ghastly grin wrinkled his lips as he gazed on me, where I sat fulfilling the task which he had allotted to me."
10858,There only remained a resolution to return to my ancient studies and to devote myself to a science for which I believed myself to possess a natural talent.
10859,"The steps creaked, but seemed tolerably sound; and I raced down past a barn like second story to the ground floor."
10860,"I am about to leave thee; soon this living spirit which is ever busy among strange shapes and ideas, which belong not to thee, soon it will have flown to other regions and this emaciated body will rest insensate on thy bosom ""Rolled round in earth's diurnal course With rocks, and stones, and trees."
10861,"""Let him discourse; it will ease his conscience, I am satisfied with having defeated him in his own castle."
10862,"Below the waist, though, it was the worst; for here all human resemblance left off and sheer phantasy began."
10863,"Meeting my betrothed in an avenue thronged with the élite of the city, I was hastening to greet her with one of my best considered bows, when a small particle of some foreign matter, lodging in the corner of my eye, rendered me, for the moment, completely blind."
10864,"Actually, the horrified pause of the men was of comparatively brief duration."
10865,"Some instinct warned Armitage that what was taking place was not a thing for unfortified eyes to see, so he brushed back the crowd with authority as he unlocked the vestibule door."
10866,"I will put you in safety meanwhile, and return to you immediately."""
10867,"There was no investigation of first causes, first principles."
10868,"A lunatic may be 'soothed,' as it is called, for a time, but, in the end, he is very apt to become obstreperous."
10869,"He had, though, heard the French Canadian who lodged just under Gilman talking to Mazurewicz one evening."
10870,"I saw from the beginning that he was both interested and sympathetic, and when I had finished he analysed and discussed the thing with the greatest shrewdness and judgment."
10871,"He has frequently conversed with me on mine, which I have communicated to him without disguise."
10872,"I took it for granted, therefore, that the earth still held them; and you will scarcely be surprised when I tell you that I felt a hope, nearly amounting to certainty, that the parchment so strangely found, involved a lost record of the place of deposit."""
10873,Could not distinguish what was said.
10874,"Upon quitting home, she gave it to be understood that she was about to visit her aunt in the Rue des Drômes and St. Eustache was requested to call for her at dark."
10875,How shall I relate the catastrophe to so much joy; but the earth would not be the earth it is covered with blight and sorrow if one such pair as these angelic creatures had been suffered to exist for one another: search through the world and you will not find the perfect happiness which their marriage would have caused them to enjoy; there must have been a revolution in the order of things as established among us miserable earth dwellers to have admitted of such consummate joy.
10876,"Day after day and night after night did we sail, and when the moon was full we would listen to soft songs of the oarsmen, sweet as on that distant night when we sailed away from my far native land."
10877,"These feelings are transitory; each day of expectation delayed fills them with fear, and I almost dread a mutiny caused by this despair."
10878,Johansen's voyage had begun just as he told it to the vice admiralty.
10879,What do you demand of your captain?
10880,"Piles of moss covered stones near the water promised tolerable seats, and the scene was sheltered from all possible view by a ruined warehouse on the north."
10881,The great clock has seven faces one in each of the seven sides of the steeple so that it can be readily seen from all quarters.
10882,"""There is nothing at all like it,"" he would say; ""we are a wonderful people, and live in a wonderful age."
10883,"No pictorial or sculptural combinations of points of human loveliness, do more than approach the living and breathing human beauty as it gladdens our daily path."
10884,"Take care of her and cherish her: one day I may claim her at your hands; but futurity is dark, make the present happy to her."" My father remained three months at Hamburgh; when he quitted it he changed his name, my aunt could never discover that which he adopted and only by faint hints, could conjecture that he had taken the road of Germany and Hungary to Turkey."
10885,"A woman was sleeping on some straw; she was young, not indeed so beautiful as her whose portrait I held, but of an agreeable aspect and blooming in the loveliness of youth and health."
10886,"""At present we have not more than ten, altogether."""
10887,"""It's a goin' agin, an' this time by day It's aout it's aout an' a movin' this very minute, an' only the Lord knows when it'll be on us all"" The speaker panted into silence, but another took up his message."
10888,"brought up close to his body and tightly compressed between his body and the side of the Automaton, or else to use his left arm brought across his breast."
10889,"It is needless to say what effect this conduct, on the part of so fascinating a woman, had upon my excitable mind."
10890,"I prepared myself for a multitude of reverses; my operations might be incessantly baffled, and at last my work be imperfect, yet when I considered the improvement which every day takes place in science and mechanics, I was encouraged to hope my present attempts would at least lay the foundations of future success."
10891,I broke from the house angry and disturbed and retired to meditate on some other mode of action.
10892,"""He is coming"" said somebody farther up."
10893,But it was all a dream; no Eve soothed my sorrows nor shared my thoughts; I was alone.
10894,She certainly knew nothing about it.
10895,"Our native oak, as his partisans called him, was visited truly by a nipping winter."
10896,"This is one of those anomalous propositions which, seemingly appealing to thought altogether apart from the mathematical, is yet one which only the mathematician can fully entertain."
10897,"It had already begun as soon as Wilbur was born, when one of the many tool sheds had been put suddenly in order, clapboarded, and fitted with a stout fresh lock."
10898,"All were afoot save Libo, Balbutius, Asellius, two or three of the centuriones, and myself, and at length the way became so steep and narrow that those who had horses were forced to leave them; a squad of ten men being left to guard them, though robber bands were not likely to be abroad on such a night of terror."
10899,"Her head fell on his shoulder, she trembled, alternate changes of fire and ice ran through her limbs: observing her emotion he spoke with softened accents: ""The blow is given."
10900,"Let us, for example, imagine the Automaton to play with his right arm."
10901,I was by this time thankfully certain that the railway itself was not patrolled.
10902,"It was now deep winter; it had snowed, and was still snowing; the wind whistled in the leafless trees, despoiling them of the white flakes as they fell; its drear moaning, and the continued knocking, mingled wildly with my dreams at length I was wide awake; hastily dressing myself, I hurried to discover the cause of this disturbance, and to open my door to the unexpected visitor."
10903,"She was what people call a notable woman, and could manage matters in the world without my assistance."
10904,"Awed, shaken, and portentous, my friend who had been beyond the barrier warned me that we must never venture within those realms again."
10905,I feel death to be near at hand and I am calm.
10906,Green leaves shrank before the hot breath of furnaces.
10907,You cannot be made to see how the mere duration of the corpse on the shore could operate to multiply traces of the assassins.
10908,"Miracles were to be wrought in my favour, the machine of social life pushed with vast effort backward."
10909,"In another moment he was on board, and rushing frantically down into the cabin."
10910,"The walls of the ravine through which the clear water still tranquilly flowed arose to an elevation of a hundred and occasionally of a hundred and fifty feet, and inclined so much toward each other as, in a great measure, to shut out the light of day; while the long plume like moss which depended densely from the intertwining shrubberies overhead, gave the whole chasm an air of funereal gloom."
10911,"Present her with a mirror, in which she may know herself; and, when she is an adept in that necessary but difficult science, she will wonder at her present mistake, and hasten to restore to me, what is by right mine, her forgiveness, her kind thoughts, her love."""
10912,The box held only a queer parchment whose characters no linguist or palaeographer has been able to decipher or identify.
10913,"My evil destiny pursued me as if in exultation, and proved, indeed, that the exercise of its mysterious dominion had as yet only begun."
10914,The sight of blood inflamed its anger into phrenzy.
10915,"We will all make it our first care, our dearest task, to contribute to your happiness."""
10916,"After trying vainly to enter the other apartments, he perceived just within the threshold of this one, a pair of small Turkish slippers; the door was ajar, but all was silent within."
10917,"After the close of the American war he was heard of as a sailor on a merchantman in the African trade, having a kind of reputation for feats of strength and climbing, but finally disappearing one night as his ship lay off the Congo coast."
10918,Nonchalance: Your diddler is nonchalant.
10919,"Twice, during six years, we were forced to stay all night at anchor on account of a dead calm, which is a rare thing indeed just about here; and once we had to remain on the grounds nearly a week, starving to death, owing to a gale which blew up shortly after our arrival, and made the channel too boisterous to be thought of."
10920,"His habits are methodical and then he would prefer getting into a private and respectable small family, piously inclined."
10921,"""An' then she let aout a turrible yell, an' says the shed daown the rud had jest caved in like the storm hed blowed it over, only the wind wa'n't strong enough to dew that."
10922,"Indeed, however rich the imagination displayed in this ingenious fiction, it wanted much of the force which might have been given it by a more scrupulous attention to facts and to general analogy."
10923,But then the blow fell.
10924,"Less wonder far is it, that the garrison, despairing of being able to hold out longer, should take advantage of the negligence of our fleet to escape at once from siege and capture."
10925,"""Still I do not quite understand,"" said Dupin."
10926,I shrank back but the closing walls pressed me resistlessly onward.
10927,"The Baron, who had been unusually silent and abstracted in the earlier portion of the evening, at length seemed to be aroused from his apathy, took a leading part in the discourse, and dwelt upon the benefits, and more especially upon the beauties, of the received code of etiquette in passages of arms with an ardor, an eloquence, an impressiveness, and an affectionateness of manner, which elicited the warmest enthusiasm from his hearers in general, and absolutely staggered even myself, who well knew him to be at heart a ridiculer of those very points for which he contended, and especially to hold the entire fanfaronade of duelling etiquette in the sovereign contempt which it deserves."
10928,"The few callers at the house would often find Lavinia alone on the ground floor, while odd cries and footsteps resounded in the boarded up second story."
10929,"I found Talbot at home, and proceeded at once to acquaint him with my good fortune."
10930,"He discoursed much, and beyond doubt, learnedly; while I hazarded an occasional suggestion as the night wore drowsily away."
10931,"When ""Madame Lalande"" was called upon to sing, the younger lady was intended; and it was she who arose to obey the call; my great, great, grandmother, to further the deception, arising at the same moment and accompanying her to the piano in the main drawing room."
10932,"Least of all, could it have been that my fancy, shaken from its half slumber, had mistaken the head for that of a living person."
10933,His mania shewed itself only in his tight boarding up of all the windows in the reclaimed section though many declared that it was a crazy thing to bother with the reclamation at all.
10934,I have now mentioned all my studies.
10935,We both know this gentleman well.
10936,"In a natural glade of the swamp stood a grassy island of perhaps an acre's extent, clear of trees and tolerably dry."
10937,The house was a good house not very old.
10938,"He dropped them all years ago, and no one feels sure whether he left the country or merely sank from sight in some hidden byway."
10939,They are gone for ever great as my power is I cannot recall them to you if indeed I wave my wand over you you will fancy that you feel their gentle spirits in the soft air that steals over your cheeks the distant sound of winds waters may image to you their voices which will bid you rejoice for that they live This will not take away your grief but you will shed sweeter tears than those which full of anguish hopelessness now start from your eyes This I can do also can I take you to see many of my provinces my fairy lands which you have not yet visited and whose beauty will while away the heavy time I have many lovely spots under my command which poets of old have visited and have seen those sights the relation of which has been as a revelation to the world many spots I have still in keeping of lovely fields or horrid rocks peopled by the beautiful or the tremendous which I keep in reserve for my future worshippers to one of those whose grim terrors frightened sleep from the eye I formerly led you but you now need more pleasing images although I will not promise you to shew you any new scenes yet if I lead you to one often visited by my followers you will at least see new combinations that will sooth if they do not delight you Follow me Alas I replied when have you found me slow to obey your voice some times indeed I have called you you have not come but when before have I not followed your slightest sign and have left what was either of joy or sorrow in our world to dwell with you in yours till you have dismissed me ever unwilling to depart But now the weight of grief that oppresses me takes from me that lightness which is necessary to follow your quick winged motions alas in the midst of my course one thought would make me droop to the ground while you would outspeed me to your Kingdom of Glory leave me here darkling Ungrateful replied the Spirit Do I not tell you that I will sustain console you My wings shall aid your heavy steps I will command my winds to disperse the mist that over casts you I will lead you to a place where you will not hear laughter that disturbs you or see the sun that dazzles you We will choose some of the most sombre walks of the Elysian fields The Elysian fields I exclaimed with a quick scream shall I then see?
10940,What evil might not happen in the mean time?
10941,"Many covered their eyes with their hands, and plunged blindly and awkwardly in their race to escape; overturning furniture and stumbling against the walls before they managed to reach one of the many doors."
10942,"And now now I shuddered in her presence, and grew pale at her approach; yet, bitterly lamenting her fallen and desolate condition, I called to mind that she had loved me long, and, in an evil moment, I spoke to her of marriage."
10943,"The result was a firm conviction of their validity, and of the consequent innocence of St. Eustache."
10944,"""Nay,"" said my companion, ""I can free you from your present impediment."
10945,"The rain was pouring in torrents, and thick mists hid the summits of the mountains, so that I even saw not the faces of those mighty friends."
10946,It was an egregious insult to the good sense of the burghers of Rotterdam.
10947,Thus although she appeared to be less initiated in the mysteries of life and society than he her knowledge was of a deeper kind and laid on firmer foundations; and if even her beauty and sweetness had not fascinated him her understanding would ever have held his in thrall.
10948,It must be confessed that it has an amazingly moon hoaxy air.
10949,"Later the god and the princess had returned, and upon the death of the princess her divine husband had mummified the body and enshrined it in a vast house of stone, where it was worshipped."
10950,"For several days they glided undulatingly over the water, till finally they came to the horizon, where the sea meets the sky."
10951,Are these circumstances not dreadful?
10952,"Yet I thank God that I have lived I thank God, that I have beheld his throne, the heavens, and earth, his footstool."
10953,"As a result, these societies became surprisingly passive and reticent."
10954,"These results have dependence upon nothing, and are influenced by nothing but the data originally given."
10955,"Thousands died unlamented; for beside the yet warm corpse the mourner was stretched, made mute by death."
10956,My rashness gave the victory in this dreadful fight to the enemy who triumphed over him as he lay fallen and vanquished.
10957,Very nervously he watched that narrow oaken gate in the high and ivy clad stone wall.
10958,"Friends and companions he shuns, for he wishes to answer no questions."
10959,"Many times I walked through that valley, and longer and longer would I pause in the spectral half light where the giant trees squirmed and twisted grotesquely, and the grey ground stretched damply from trunk to trunk, sometimes disclosing the mould stained stones of buried temples."
10960,"We shall meet again perhaps in the shining mists of Orion's Sword, perhaps on a bleak plateau in prehistoric Asia."
10961,"Again I rose, and exerting all the firmness of which I was master, removed the planks which I had placed before my hovel to conceal my retreat."
10962,"The school room was the largest in the house I could not help thinking, in the world."
10963,"At one Time Johnson recited to me some lines by a Servant to the Duke of Leeds, which had so amus'd him, that he had got them by Heart."
10964,"You, however, had drawn a chair close to the chimney."
10965,"Of the six men who never reached the ship, he thinks two perished of pure fright in that accursed instant."
10966,"As I approached the arch I began to perceive the presence more clearly; and then, with the first and last sound I ever uttered a ghastly ululation that revolted me almost as poignantly as its noxious cause I beheld in full, frightful vividness the inconceivable, indescribable, and unmentionable monstrosity which had by its simple appearance changed a merry company to a herd of delirious fugitives."
10967,"Look in that mirror; when I came your brow was contracted, your eyes deep sunk in your head, your lips quivering; your hands trembled violently when I took them; but now all is tranquil and soft."
10968,"The man was great I say it even now, knowing as much as I do."
10969,"Our alarm was now divided, for besides our fear of the unknown, we had always entertained a dread that our grisly collection might be discovered."
10970,I knew that I had now fully recovered the use of my visual faculties and yet it was dark all dark the intense and utter raylessness of the Night that endureth for evermore.
10971,"The figure, which was finally passed slowly from man to man for close and careful study, was between seven and eight inches in height, and of exquisitely artistic workmanship."
10972,"""'They are kind they are the most excellent creatures in the world; but, unfortunately, they are prejudiced against me."
10973,"The balloon for such no doubt it was had now descended to within a hundred feet of the earth, allowing the crowd below a sufficiently distinct view of the person of its occupant."
10974,"It was, the professor stated, a very crude bas relief of stone, comprising a hideous picture and some cryptic writing."
10975,A serene sky and verdant fields filled me with ecstasy.
10976,He excites at once my admiration and my pity to an astonishing degree.
10977,Our seclusion was perfect.
10978,"As you honour me as you worship God, in whose image those also are created as your children and friends are dear to you, shed not a drop of precious human blood."""
10979,"Up the long avenue of aged oaks which led from the forest to the main entrance of the Château Metzengerstein, a steed, bearing an unbonneted and disordered rider, was seen leaping with an impetuosity which outstripped the very Demon of the Tempest."
10980,These motives urged me to comply with his demand.
10981,"""To be even with him, I complained of my weak eyes, and lamented the necessity of the spectacles, under cover of which I cautiously and thoroughly surveyed the whole apartment, while seemingly intent only upon the conversation of my host."
10982,"A figure, dressed like a magician, appears seated at the bottom of a wall, holding a wand in one hand, and a book in the other A number of questions, ready prepared, are inscribed on oval medallions, and the spectator takes any of these he chooses and to which he wishes an answer, and having placed it in a drawer ready to receive it, the drawer shuts with a spring till the answer is returned."
10983,"It proved, however, to have been without ball, and the fellow was suffered to go his way as a lunatic or a drunkard."
10984,"For centuries its lofty battlements have frowned down upon the wild and rugged countryside about, serving as a home and stronghold for the proud house whose honoured line is older even than the moss grown castle walls."
10985,"Then a faint clicking came from the instrument, and I called down to my friend in a tense voice."
10986,"The merry marriage bells rung in my ears; I heard the nation's gratulation which followed the union; the ambitious noble uprose with swift eagle flight, from the lowly ground to regal supremacy and to the love of Idris."
10987,I had scarcely laid the first tier of my masonry when I discovered that the intoxication of Fortunato had in a great measure worn off.
10988,"Compassion swelled his breast; he would see her once again; he would devise some plan for restoring her to society, and the enjoyment of her rank; their separation would then follow, as a matter of course."
10989,"But still I read more in hidden, forgotten books and scrolls to which my new vision led me and pushed through fresh gateways of space and being and life patterns toward the core of the unknown cosmos."
10990,"I told him that I could, and translated for his benefit a paragraph near the beginning."
10991,Go thou then to Athok the cobbler or be gone out of the city by sunset.
10992,"It is the Land of Hope, and in it shine the perfect ideals of all that we know elsewhere; or at least so men relate."
10993,"But, in his disordered fancy, the idea had assumed a more daring character, and trespassed, under certain conditions, upon the kingdom of inorganization."
10994,The grass had grown around and over some of them.
10995,"Her mind was of uncommon strength; she could subdue her sensible wants to her mental wishes, and suffer cold, hunger and misery, rather than concede to fortune a contested point."
10996,"I will repeat here what he said, underlining the words he emphasised: ""He is calling He is calling I hear him We must go"" As he spoke he took his ivory image from the table, pocketed it, and seized my arm in an effort to drag me up the companionway to the deck."
10997,"The pantaloons, which thou sayest were made by Bourdon, are an excellent pair of linen drawers, and thy robe de chambre is a shroud of no scanty dimensions."""
10998,"The final conclusion of the linguists was that the text represented an artificial alphabet, giving the effect of a cipher; though none of the usual methods of cryptographic solution seemed to furnish any clue, even when applied on the basis of every tongue the writer might conceivably have used."
10999,"I beseech you; by your former love for me now lost, I adjure you to answer that one question."
11000,"Then again I journeyed far down away into another country where it was all one dim and vague lake, with a boundary line of clouds."
11001,"Some peculiarities, either in his early education, or in the nature of his intellect, had tinged with what is termed materialism the whole cast of his ethical speculations; and it was this bias, perhaps, which imperceptibly led him to perceive that the most advantageous, if not the sole legitimate field for the exercise of the poetic sentiment, was to be found in the creation of novel moods of purely physical loveliness."
11002,"She said very few words, and passed at once into her state room with Mr. W. My old inquisitiveness now returned."
11003,"""Lionel, you hear: witness for me: persuade your sister to forgive the injury I have done her; persuade her to be mine."""
11004,"""You observe there are no divisions between the words."
11005,"Dear Victor, banish these dark passions."
11006,"As for my old friend, Madame Joyeuse, I really could have wept for the poor lady, she appeared so terribly perplexed."
11007,"""But,"" I interposed, ""you say that the skull was not upon the parchment when you made the drawing of the beetle."
11008,"If I lift up my eyes and see the desart earth, and feel that those dear eyes have spent their mortal lustre, and that those beauteous lips are silent, their ""crimson leaves"" faded, for ever I am mute But you live, my Idris, even now you move before me There was a glade, O reader a grassy opening in the wood; the retiring trees left its velvet expanse as a temple for love; the silver Thames bounded it on one side, and a willow bending down dipt in the water its Naiad hair, dishevelled by the wind's viewless hand."
11009,"He heard my account of the self dissolution of the army with calmness, and then said, ""You know, Verney, my fixed determination not to quit this place, until in the light of day Stamboul is confessedly ours."
11010,We got all kinds here reel life an' a good time.
11011,"There was something in his manner of emphasizing the word ""peculiar,"" which caused me to shudder, without knowing why."
11012,"I doubted at first whether I should attempt the creation of a being like myself, or one of simpler organization; but my imagination was too much exalted by my first success to permit me to doubt of my ability to give life to an animal as complex and wonderful as man."
11013,"We saw a great deal of society, and no day passed that my father did not endeavour to embellish by some new enjoyment."
11014,"My room, a dismal rear one with two windows and bare, cheap furnishings, overlooked a dingy courtyard otherwise hemmed in by low, deserted brick blocks, and commanded a view of decrepit westward stretching roofs with a marshy countryside beyond."
11015,"I scraped further, and saw that it had form."
11016,I had lived with the old gentleman all my life.
11017,"None had ever before suspected, that power, or the suffrage of the many, could in any manner become dear to him."
11018,"But the void within my heart refused, even thus, to be filled."
11019,"But, for many minutes, the heart beat on with a muffled sound."
11020,"He entered the churches, and foretold to the congregations their speedy removal to the vaults below."
11021,I know not what we are to hope; but there is some good beyond us that we must seek; and that is our earthly task.
11022,There is something at work in my soul which I do not understand.
11023,"An old man sat in it, near a fire, over which he was preparing his breakfast."
11024,"Divorced from the enlightenment of civilisation, the strength of these Puritans turned into singular channels; and in their isolation, morbid self repression, and struggle for life with relentless Nature, there came to them dark furtive traits from the prehistoric depths of their cold Northern heritage."
11025,"My friend said they were horrible and impressive beyond my most fevered imaginings; that what was thrown on a screen in the darkened room prophesied things none but Nyarlathotep dared prophesy, and that in the sputter of his sparks there was taken from men that which had never been taken before yet which shewed only in the eyes."
11026,"As it was, lacking their original letters, I half suspected the compiler of having asked leading questions, or of having edited the correspondence in corroboration of what he had latently resolved to see."
11027,"Ah, I see the balloon has collapsed, and we shall have a tumble into the sea."
11028,"She was submissive to those who held authority over her, but a perpetual cloud dwelt on her brow; she looked as if she expected enmity from every one who approached her, and her actions were instigated by the same feeling."
11029,"""Surely this is the most populous city of the East What a wilderness of people what a jumble of all ranks and ages what a multiplicity of sects and nations what a variety of costumes what a Babel of languages what a screaming of beasts what a tinkling of instruments what a parcel of philosophers"" Come let us be off."
11030,"Method is the thing, after all."
11031,"I, the offspring of love, the child of the woods, the nursling of Nature's bright self was to submit to this?"
11032,"""Have you heard of the unhappy death of the old hunter Berlifitzing?"" said one of his vassals to the Baron, as, after the departure of the page, the huge steed which that nobleman had adopted as his own, plunged and curvetted, with redoubled fury, down the long avenue which extended from the chateau to the stables of Metzengerstein."
11033,"In short, I became a new man, and lived a man's life."
11034,"It was completely dark when I arrived in the environs of Geneva; the gates of the town were already shut; and I was obliged to pass the night at Secheron, a village at the distance of half a league from the city."
11035,"At length, after temporarily felling one of his detainers with a sudden blow, he had flung himself upon the other in a daemoniac ecstasy of bloodthirstiness, shrieking fiendishly that he would 'jump high in the air and burn his way through anything that stopped him'."
11036,"Perdita had arrived with her child at Dartford, weeping and inconsolable."
11037,"In a remote and terror inspiring angle was a square enclosure of eight or ten feet, comprising the sanctum, ""during hours,"" of our principal, the Reverend Dr. Bransby."
11038,I wish the composure but not the depression of solitude.
11039,"Again and again I have passed over in my remembrance the different scenes of my short life: if the world is a stage and I merely an actor on it my part has been strange, and, alas tragical."
11040,"If the study to which you apply yourself has a tendency to weaken your affections and to destroy your taste for those simple pleasures in which no alloy can possibly mix, then that study is certainly unlawful, that is to say, not befitting the human mind."
11041,"In the meantime, you shall be my escort home to night."
11042,Behind the figure was a vague suggestion of a Cyclopean architectural background.
11043,"In his desire to repair his first losses, my father risked double stakes, and thus incurred a debt of honour he was wholly unable to pay."
11044,You have already fathomed the true character of this good gentleman.
11045,"""But,"" said the Prefect, a little discomposed, ""I am perfectly willing to take advice, and to pay for it."
11046,"""There is more of what is specious than true in your distinction,"" said my companion."
11047,Does not the plague rage each year in Stamboul?
11048,"That these secrets should be brought to light seemed injudicious, and I began to wish for an excuse to leave the castle and the village."
11049,"""All things go on,"" thought Perdita, ""all things proceed, decay, and perish When noontide has passed, and the weary day has driven her team to their western stalls, the fires of heaven rise from the East, moving in their accustomed path, they ascend and descend the skiey hill."
11050,I've seen Wilbur Whateley's diary and read some of the strange old books he used to read; and I think I know the right kind of spell to recite to make the thing fade away.
11051,The latter feeling now predominated.
11052,"It was easy, on the contrary, to imagine it pervading the entire regions of our planetary system, condensed into what we call atmosphere at the planets themselves, and perhaps at some of them modified by considerations, so to speak, purely geological."
11053,"""Everything being now ready, I exacted from my wife an oath of secrecy in relation to all my actions from the day of my first visit to the bookseller's stall; and promising, on my part, to return as soon as circumstances would permit, I gave her what little money I had left, and bade her farewell."
11054,"The light of the moon had strangely failed, and as Atal plunged upward through the mists he heard Barzai the Wise shrieking in the shadows: ""The moon is dark, and the gods dance in the night; there is terror in the sky, for upon the moon hath sunk an eclipse foretold in no books of men or of earth's gods. . . ."
11055,"Our system revolves, it is true, about a common centre of gravity, but it does this in connection with and in consequence of a material sun whose mass more than counterbalances the rest of the system."
11056,"In fact, the facility with which I shall arrive, or have arrived, at the solution of this mystery, is in the direct ratio of its apparent insolubility in the eyes of the police."""
11057,"Only his lividly inclined complexion and coldness of touch could have afforded a physical basis for this feeling, and even these things should have been excusable considering the man's known invalidism."
11058,"The skin was thickly covered with coarse black fur, and from the abdomen a score of long greenish grey tentacles with red sucking mouths protruded limply."
11059,But would any number of men have dreamed of resorting to such an expedient?
11060,"Around that head it closed, totally swallowing it up, and in another moment it had begun to recede; bearing away its invisible burden without touching me, and flowing again out of that black doorway and down the unseen stairs, which creaked as before, though in reverse order."
11061,"On the table beside me burned a lamp, and near it lay a little box."
11062,I could not be mistaken in its character.
11063,But there was no remedy.
11064,This short seperation from his companions gave him courage to assert his independance.
11065,I felt subtly that the apartment of this ancient victim was best for my purposes.
11066,"But frost would come at last, and with it a renewal of our lease of earth."
11067,"Thus the only ""artificial"" light which could avail Mr. Locke, would be some artificial light which he should be able to throw not upon the ""focal object of vision,"" but upon the real object to be viewed to wit: upon the moon."
11068,Raymond was actuated by far other feelings.
11069,"You shall give me all the information in your power about these murders in the Rue Morgue."""
11070,"Monsieur Le Blanc professed total ignorance, as before."
11071,put her in mind of it the first opportunity.
11072,"Finally the connecting door gave, but with such a crash that I knew those outside must have heard."
11073,"I have just left the deck, where I find it impossible to maintain a footing, although the crew seem to experience little inconvenience."
11074,"""I wonder who she can be?"" ""Why, in the name of all that is angelic, don't you know who she is? 'Not to know her argues yourself unknown.'"
11075,"At first I attempted to prevent her but she persisted, and entering the room where it lay, hastily examined the neck of the victim, and clasping her hands exclaimed, 'O God I have murdered my darling child' ""She fainted, and was restored with extreme difficulty."
11076,"body knew, was an unknown quantity; but in this case as he properly observed, there was an unknown quantity of X."
11077,"My sensations were those of entire happiness, for I felt that in a few minutes, at farthest, I should be relieved from my disagreeable situation."
11078,Shortly afterward the pale faced workmen apprised the Superintendent of their failure.
11079,"""It is not from deck,"" said the man at the helm, ""something has been thrown from the aft cabin."""
11080,"There was the immemorial figure of the deputy or messenger of hidden and terrible powers the ""Black Man"" of the witch cult, and the ""Nyarlathotep"" of the Necronomicon."
11081,But alas it was now far beyond my grasp.
11082,"Earth is to me a tomb, the firmament a vault, shrouding mere corruption."
11083,"Now here, I at once saw, was a telescope to be used, and a definite point of view, admitting no variation, from which to use it."
11084,"Outside, the moon played on the ridgepole of the block below, and I saw that the jump would be desperately hazardous because of the steep surface on which I must land."
11085,"Near the spot where we found it, I observed the remnants of the hull of what appeared to have been a ship's long boat."
11086,Heaven be thanked for the instinct which led me unconscious to places where men dwell; to the peaceful village that slept under the calm stars of clearing skies.
11087,"The Pequots, enfeebled by a previous war, could give the now stricken Narragansetts no assistance; and in a Dutch fur trader of Albany, Petrus van Schaack, secured the distinguished cranium for the modest sum of two guilders, he having recognised its value from the half effaced inscription carved in Lombardic minuscules palaeography, it might be explained, was one of the leading accomplishments of New Netherland fur traders of the seventeenth century."
11088,"From Derby, still journeying northwards, we passed two months in Cumberland and Westmorland."
11089,"All was as of old, nor were the marble walls discoloured, nor the polished bronze statues upon them tarnished."
11090,"Having done all this in a neat speech, I took leave."
11091,"We discussed the best means of preventing infection, and of preserving health and activity in a large city thus afflicted London, for instance."
11092,"When his dominions were half depopulated, he summoned to his presence a thousand hale and light hearted friends from among the knights and dames of his court, and with these retired to the deep seclusion of one of his castellated abbeys."
11093,"Mem: at , feet elevation the sky appears nearly black, and the stars are distinctly visible; while the sea does not seem convex as one might suppose but absolutely and most unequivocally concave."
11094,"Ye see, they was able to live both in an' aout o' water what they call amphibians, I guess."
11095,"She partly arose, and spoke, in an earnest low whisper, of sounds which she then heard, but which I could not hear of motions which she then saw, but which I could not perceive."
11096,"Hitherto it had served me well, and I now resolved to make it avail me to the end."
11097,How could he keep himself from going?
11098,"Yet my senses are bewildered, Charmion, with the keenness of their perception of the new."
11099,"For them are the catacombs of Ptolemais, and the carven mausolea of the nightmare countries."
11100,"Between the wheels and the wall where the hole lay there was barely room for my body yet I was desperate, and determined to persevere."
11101,"He clearly understood my needs at a glance, and ministered to them with a master's deftness; the while reassuring me in a finely modulated though oddly hollow and timbreless voice that he was the bitterest of sworn enemies to death, and had sunk his fortune and lost all his friends in a lifetime of bizarre experiment devoted to its bafflement and extirpation."
11102,"I wished to see him again, that I might wreak the utmost extent of abhorrence on his head and avenge the deaths of William and Justine."
11103,"The result of my experiment with the old books, convinced me, in the first place, that ""honesty is the best policy,"" and, in the second, that if I could not write better than Mr. Dante, and the two blind men, and the rest of the old set, it would, at least, be a difficult matter to write worse."
11104,"It might be actively hostile, or it might be dictated merely by blind motives of self preservation."
11105,"Throughout that afternoon they rode around Dunwich; questioning the natives concerning all that had occurred, and seeing for themselves with rising pangs of horror the drear Frye ruins with their lingering traces of the tarry stickiness, the blasphemous tracks in the Frye yard, the wounded Seth Bishop cattle, and the enormous swaths of disturbed vegetation in various places."
11106,Oh Sun how beautiful thou art And how glorious is the golden ocean that receives thee My heart is at peace I feel no sorrow a holy love stills my senses I feel as if my mind also partook of the inexpressible loveliness of surrounding nature What shall I do?
11107,"This delicate little creature, in the trembling of her wasted fingers, in the livid hue of her lips, and in the slight hectic spot which tinged her otherwise leaden complexion, gave evident indications of a galloping consumption."
11108,"He had on a tight fitting parti striped dress, and his head was surmounted by the conical cap and bells."
11109,"Then Donovan felt over it delicately around the edge, pressing each point separately as he went."
11110,His favourite horse was found grazing by the margin of the tranquil river.
11111,"On the far, misty horizon I could just make out the dizzy profile of the Head, topped by the queer ancient house of which so many legends are told; but for the moment all my attention was captured by the nearer panorama just below me."
11112,"In his solitary despair Adrian would often seek my sister, and in covered terms express his misery, while fortitude and agony divided the throne of his mind."
11113,But then Perdita thought more constantly of others than he; and part of her bashfulness arose from a wish to take from those around her a sense of inferiority; a feeling which never crossed her mind.
11114,"When it reached the house it domesticated itself at once, and became immediately a great favorite with my wife."
11115,"In a minute afterward they relaxed, disclosing a bright line of the pearly teeth."
11116,At such times I could not help remarking and admiring although from his rich ideality I had been prepared to expect it a peculiar analytic ability in Dupin.
11117,"""I am not mad,"" I cried energetically; ""the sun and the heavens, who have viewed my operations, can bear witness of my truth."
11118,My own case differed in no important particular from those mentioned in medical books.
11119,"CHAPTER IV Among our most assiduous visitors was a young man of rank, well informed, and agreable in his person."
11120,Lying on its side for it could not stand up alone was the exotic spiky figure which in his monstrous dream he had broken off the fantastic balustrade.
11121,"The earth was trampled, the bushes were broken, and there was every evidence of a violent struggle."
11122,"The scoundrel had joined his master in the country: ""Left S yesterday, for parts unknown did not say where or when be back so thought best to return letter, knowing your handwriting, and as how you is always, more or less, in a hurry."
11123,"Their yells were drowned in the clamour of elements, and the thunder rivings of their unwieldy habitation they discovered at last that the water gained on them, and they betook themselves to their pumps; they might as well have laboured to empty the ocean by bucketfuls."
11124,"Sometimes I wished to express my sensations in my own mode, but the uncouth and inarticulate sounds which broke from me frightened me into silence again."
11125,"She was too unlike them, too utterly alien to their tastes, for them to find delight in her society, or in the prospect of its continuance, but it gave them pleasure to see her conciliating and kind."
11126,"He had grown as large as a child of four, and was a fluent and incredibly intelligent talker."
11127,"To be friendless is indeed to be unfortunate, but the hearts of men, when unprejudiced by any obvious self interest, are full of brotherly love and charity."
11128,I dreaded the jealousy of the editor and I had ascertained that he did not pay for original contributions.
11129,"The principle being discovered by which a machine can be made to play a game of chess, an extension of the same principle would enable it to win a game a farther extension would enable it to win all games that is, to beat any possible game of an antagonist."
11130,"Then I spurred on my animal, striving so to forget the world, my fears, and more than all, myself or, in a more desperate fashion, I alighted and threw myself on the grass, weighed down by horror and despair."
11131,"It seemed, in any event, to be contagious; for Hannah Bowen, one of the two servants, died of it in the following June."
11132,"why, not General John A. B. C.?"" ""Smith?"" inquired Miranda, musingly."
11133,"""For many minutes,"" continued the latter, ""my sole sentiment my sole feeling was that of darkness and nonentity, with the consciousness of death."
11134,"Her voice embraced three complete octaves, extending from the contralto D to the D upper soprano, and, though sufficiently powerful to have filled the San Carlos, executed, with the minutest precision, every difficulty of vocal composition ascending and descending scales, cadences, or fiorituri."
11135,A man of this kind was now pouring forth his eloquent despair among the inhabitants of Windsor.
11136,"He soon, however, recovered his composure, and an expression of determined malignancy settled upon his countenance, as he gave peremptory orders that a certain chamber should be immediately locked up, and the key placed in his own possession."
11137,"I began to murmur, to hesitate, to resist."
11138,"Then we reached the crest and beheld the outspread valley beyond, where the Manuxet joins the sea just north of the long line of cliffs that culminate in Kingsport Head and veer off toward Cape Ann."
11139,"""There is a game of puzzles,"" he resumed, ""which is played upon a map."
11140,"At the turn, the stream, sweeping backward, made an almost circular loop, so as to form a peninsula which was very nearly an island, and which included about the sixteenth of an acre."
11141,"But when I discovered that he, the author at once of my existence and of its unspeakable torments, dared to hope for happiness, that while he accumulated wretchedness and despair upon me he sought his own enjoyment in feelings and passions from the indulgence of which I was forever barred, then impotent envy and bitter indignation filled me with an insatiable thirst for vengeance."
11142,"It's all the same now, for he's gone back into the fabulous darkness he loved to haunt."
11143,I was overcome by gloom and misery and often reflected I had better seek death than desire to remain in a world which to me was replete with wretchedness.
11144,"He can no longer be a subject for pity; we must reserve that for his miserable survivors."""
11145,"I felt it, and, to say the truth, found not the slightest indication of fever."
11146,He talked of Eusebius and Arianus; heresy and the Council of Nice; Puseyism and consubstantialism; Homousios and Homouioisios.
11147,"I really thought he would have fallen into convulsions."""
11148,"If it had only snarled, or bayed, or laughed titteringly even that would have relieved the abysmal hideousness."
11149,"He had shewn little regret when shut into the barred room at Huntingdon, for his mind moved curiously."
11150,"What was I? The question again recurred, to be answered only with groans."
11151,"At that moment, as I say, I was elated with the conviction that the one great goal had been attained; and that for the first time a reanimated corpse had uttered distinct words impelled by actual reason."
11152,"Her dark hair was braided and twined in thick knots like the head dress of a Grecian statue; her garb was mean, but her attitude might have been selected as a model of grace."
11153,"The night, as I said before, was dark; there was not a star to be seen; and a drizzling rain, falling at intervals, rendered us very uncomfortable."
11154,Knew Madame L. and her daughter.
11155,As soon as I perceived him I suddenly rose to escape from his observation by entering among the trees.
11156,The rooms were crowded to suffocation.
11157,"In Auckland I learned that Johansen had returned with yellow hair turned white after a perfunctory and inconclusive questioning at Sydney, and had thereafter sold his cottage in West Street and sailed with his wife to his old home in Oslo."
11158,"He listened with haughtiness, replied disdainfully; and, if in truth, she succeeded in awakening his conscience, the sole effect was that he sought an opiate for the pang in oblivious riot."
11159,"They gathered round him, counted their numbers, and detailed the reasons why they were now to receive an addition of such and such members, who had not yet declared themselves."
11160,"Finally I hired a seedy looking loafer whom I encountered on the corner of Eighth Avenue to keep the patient supplied with ice from a little shop where I introduced him, and applied myself diligently to the task of finding a pump piston and engaging workmen competent to install it."
11161,"When we reach the latter, we feel an almost irresistible inclination to class it with spirit, or with nihility."
11162,"Then the glass broke shiveringly under the persistent impacts, and the chill wind rushed in, making the candles sputter and rustling the sheets of paper on the table where Zann had begun to write out his horrible secret."
11163,"I had been now two years successfully busied in this way, when there came to the university a young parvenu nobleman, Glendinning rich, said report, as Herodes Atticus his riches, too, as easily acquired."
11164,I saw a change in her also.
11165,"We returned again, with torches; for I could not rest, when I thought that my sweet boy had lost himself, and was exposed to all the damps and dews of night; Elizabeth also suffered extreme anguish."
11166,"My daughter, I love you"" The last words died away in a hoarse whisper, but I heard them and sunk on the ground, covering my face and almost dead with excess of sickness and fear: a cold perspiration covered my forehead and I shivered in every limb But he continued, clasping his hands with a frantic gesture: ""Now I have dashed from the top of the rock to the bottom Now I have precipitated myself down the fearful chasm The danger is over; she is alive Oh, Mathilda, lift up those dear eyes in the light of which I live."
11167,"Return speedily, Lionel."""
11168,This is indeed no dream CHARMION.
11169,The style that was the thing.
11170,"I was almost paralysed, but not too much so to make a feeble effort toward flight; a backward stumble which failed to break the spell in which the nameless, voiceless monster held me."
11171,"The cold is not excessive, if you are wrapped in furs a dress which I have already adopted, for there is a great difference between walking the deck and remaining seated motionless for hours, when no exercise prevents the blood from actually freezing in your veins."
11172,"I became intimate with him, and each day afforded me occasion to admire more and more his powerful and versatile talents, that together with his eloquence, which was graceful and witty, and his wealth now immense, caused him to be feared, loved, and hated beyond any other man in England."
11173,"I had arrived at that well known portion of the story where Ethelred, the hero of the Trist, having sought in vain for peaceable admission into the dwelling of the hermit, proceeds to make good an entrance by force."
11174,And Pickman had it as no man ever had it before or I hope to heaven ever will again.
11175,What would the storm call forth or was there anything left for it to call?
11176,Among the animals in the exhibition with which he travelled was a huge bull gorilla of lighter colour than the average; a surprisingly tractable beast of much popularity with the performers.
11177,"What, for example, in this case of D , has been done to vary the principle of action?"
11178,"That it has frequently, very frequently, so fallen will scarcely be denied by those who think."
11179,"Poor William he was our darling and our pride"" Tears, unrestrained, fell from my brother's eyes; a sense of mortal agony crept over my frame."
11180,"Many, however maintained that the exhibiter himself regulated the movements of the figure by mechanical means operating through the feet of the box."
11181,"His name was Barzai the Wise, and the villagers tell of how he went up a mountain on the night of the strange eclipse."
11182,In an instant afterward the fancy was confirmed.
11183,"The latter name made me tremble when pronounced by Henry, and I hastened to quit Matlock, with which that terrible scene was thus associated."
11184,Her face was radiant with a smile.
11185,"My stricken friend moved them to no pity, but what they found on the couch in the studio made them give me a praise which sickened me, and now a fame which I spurn in despair as I sit for hours, bald, grey bearded, shrivelled, palsied, drug crazed, and broken, adoring and praying to the object they found."
11186,"Half unconscious, I opened the grating and staggered out upon the white gravel path that stretched away in two directions."
11187,"Upon my touching him, he immediately arose, purred loudly, rubbed against my hand, and appeared delighted with my notice."
11188,That feeble thrill had vibrated itself into quiescence.
11189,"After that, the sound of the inquisitorial voices seemed merged in one dreamy indeterminate hum."
11190,"As I grew older books in some degree supplied the place of human intercourse: the library of my aunt was very small; Shakespear, Milton, Pope and Cowper were the strangley sic assorted poets of her collection; and among the prose authors a translation of Livy and Rollin's ancient history were my chief favourites although as I emerged from childhood I found others highly interesting which I had before neglected as dull."
11191,For the rest I have some explanation to make.
11192,What do moderns know of life and the forces behind it?
11193,"I have great reliance, however, on that extreme delicacy of discrimination, in matters appertaining to the rules of etiquette, for which you have been so long and so pre eminently distinguished."
11194,"The clergymen or priests, or whatever they were called nowadays also wore this kind of ornament as a head dress; but one seldom caught glimpses of them."
11195,Yet while he earnestly occupied himself about the wants of others his own desires were gratified to their fullest extent.
11196,and some were strangely robed . . .
11197,"Here Mr. Mill means, for example, that a tree must be either a tree or not a tree that it cannot be at the same time a tree and not a tree."
11198,Yet I do not pretend to account for my mood by any particular event.
11199,"To say nothing of the stuffs placed on board in the forenoon by way of ballast, and not to mention the various ales and liqueurs shipped this evening at different sea ports, I have, at present, a full cargo of 'humming stuff' taken in and duly paid for at the sign of the 'Jolly Tar.'"
11200,I saw them writhe with a deadly locution.
11201,When the servant came back she gave me a letter.
11202,"""Git aout o' here Git aout o' here They seen us git aout fer your life Dun't wait fer nothin' they know naow Run fer it quick aout o' this taown "" Another heavy wave dashed against the loosening masonry of the bygone wharf, and changed the mad ancient's whisper to another inhuman and blood curdling scream."
11203,"Shortly afterward I was taken through those antique ways so dear to my fancy narrow, curving alleys and passages where rows of red Georgian brick blinked with small paned dormers above pillared doorways that had looked on gilded sedans and panelled coaches and in the first flush of realisation of these long wished things I thought I had indeed achieved such treasures as would make me in time a poet."
11204,I groaned in anguish at the pitiable spectacle.
11205,"Slowly she glided along, and at length rounded the islet and re entered the region of light."
11206,"I went so far as to regret the loss of the animal, and to look about me, among the vile haunts which I now habitually frequented, for another pet of the same species, and of somewhat similar appearance, with which to supply its place."
11207,Then I thought with renewed force of what the factory inspector had heard in the night in this mouldering and pestilential building.
11208,"I was a mere skeleton, and fever night and day preyed upon my wasted frame."
11209,I at once looked upon the figure of the animal as a kind of punning or hieroglyphical signature.
11210,"I am that very Signora Psyche Zenobia, so justly celebrated as corresponding secretary to the ""Philadelphia, Regular, Exchange, Tea, Total, Young, Belles, Lettres, Universal, Experimental, Bibliographical, Association, To, Civilize, Humanity."""
11211,"""I must not forget here, that the stars appeared only on that side of the globe turned toward the moon, and that the closer they were to it the larger they seemed."
11212,I hoped to induce you to grant me a boat with which I could pursue my enemy.
11213,"Why, we may get up a very thrilling bit of superstition upon this hint."
11214,"I heard of the death of only sons; of wives and husbands most devoted; of the rending of ties twisted with the heart's fibres, of friend losing friend, and young mothers mourning for their first born; and these moving incidents were grouped and painted in my mind by the knowledge of the persons, by my esteem and affection for the sufferers."
11215,"He had already bought a farm with his money, on which he had designed to pass the remainder of his life; but he bestowed the whole on his rival, together with the remains of his prize money to purchase stock, and then himself solicited the young woman's father to consent to her marriage with her lover."
11216,"In the consideration of motive it fails; for two motives, each of a given value, have not, necessarily, a value when united, equal to the sum of their values apart."
11217,"He worked largely by feeling now, since newly gathered clouds hid the moon; and though progress was still slow, he felt heartened at the extent of his encroachments on the top and bottom of the aperture."
11218,"To this he objected pleading haste in the first place, and, in the second, a very usual horror at the sight of a lunatic."
11219,"Notwithstanding the obscurity which thus envelops the date of the foundation of Vondervotteimittis, and the derivation of its name, there can be no doubt, as I said before, that it has always existed as we find it at this epoch."
11220,"""Ha ha ha"" said his Grace on the third day after his decease."
11221,"That was a nice bit of flummery, and went down the throats of the people delightfully."
11222,"Each successive one is multiple evidence proof not added to proof, but multiplied by hundreds or thousands."
11223,"There are many books which can feed the appetite craving for these things; let them turn to the accounts of Boccaccio, De Foe, and Browne."
11224,"For wisdom, ask of the angels freely, that it may be given OINOS."
11225,"The metal of the Earl of Ross's is feet diameter; it is inches thick at the edges, and at the centre."
11226,"All at once the head turned sharply in my direction and the eyes fell open, causing me to stare in blank amazement at what I beheld."
11227,Not a word had been spoken during the present session on any of these topics.
11228,"""And then, perhaps, this Clos de Vougeot is a little heady, you know a little strong you understand, eh?"" ""To be sure,"" said I, ""to be sure."
11229,"The immediate problem was how to reach the ancient railway; and I now saw that the safest course was ahead to Babson Street, then west to Lafayette there edging around but not crossing an open space homologous to the one I had traversed and subsequently back northward and westward in a zigzagging line through Lafayette, Bates, Adams, and Bank Streets the latter skirting the river gorge to the abandoned and dilapidated station I had seen from my window."
11230,"The peasant woman, perceiving that my mother fixed eyes of wonder and admiration on this lovely girl, eagerly communicated her history."
11231,"CHAPTER VII With a beating heart and fearful, I knew not why, I dismissed the servant and locking my door, sat down to read my father's letter."
11232,Perdita's name was for ever joined with his; their conjugal felicity was celebrated even by the authentic testimony of facts.
11233,It came from the room into which Elizabeth had retired.
11234,The bust of the General was unquestionably the finest bust I ever saw.
11235,Even about his age although I call him a young gentleman there was something which perplexed me in no little degree.
11236,"Nevertheless there is an ancient house on that cliff, and at evening men see lights in the small paned windows."
11237,"And these men the poets living and perishing amid the scorn of the ""utilitarians"" of rough pedants, who arrogated to themselves a title which could have been properly applied only to the scorned these men, the poets, pondered piningly, yet not unwisely, upon the ancient days when our wants were not more simple than our enjoyments were keen days when mirth was a word unknown, so solemnly deep toned was happiness holy, august and blissful days, when blue rivers ran undammed, between hills unhewn, into far forest solitudes, primæval, odorous, and unexplored."
11238,"For a long hour the watchers gazed, whilst the vapours swirled and the screen of clouds grew thicker and more restless."
11239,"He came to the university with the design of making himself complete master of the oriental languages, and thus he should open a field for the plan of life he had marked out for himself."
11240,"Nothing, for example, is more difficult than to convince the merely general reader that the fact of sixes having been thrown twice in succession by a player at dice, is sufficient cause for betting the largest odds that sixes will not be thrown in the third attempt."
11241,"The natives, all of whom had talked with the policemen, seemed at first as perplexed as Armitage and his companions."
11242,"To speak the truth, I had no especial relish for such amusement at any time, and, at that particular moment, would most willingly have declined it; for the night was coming on, and I felt much fatigued with the exercise already taken; but I saw no mode of escape, and was fearful of disturbing my poor friend's equanimity by a refusal."
11243,"We resided principally in the latter, and the lives of my parents were passed in considerable seclusion."
11244,"The cup of life was poisoned forever, and although the sun shone upon me, as upon the happy and gay of heart, I saw around me nothing but a dense and frightful darkness, penetrated by no light but the glimmer of two eyes that glared upon me."
11245,"My informant had noticed it many times, and had heard it spoken of as coming from some secret hoard, either of pirates or of daemons."
11246,"If, indeed, the casting of large lenses were all that is required, man's ingenuity would ultimately prove equal to the task, and we might have them of any size demanded."
11247,"His interest gradually veered away from the unplumbed voids beyond the slanting surfaces, since it now appeared that the purpose of those surfaces concerned the side he was already on."
11248,"The word ""balderdash,"" as applied to the ""Oil of Bob"" of the Fly, I considered singularly pungent and appropriate."
11249,"Pinxit availed himself of the opportunity to retouch, from a sketch taken upon the spot, his admirable painting of the ""Marsyas flayed alive."""
11250,The vibration of the pendulum was at right angles to my length.
11251,"I particularly mark this night, for it was that which has hurried on the last scene of my tragedy, which else might have dwindled on through long years of listless sorrow."
11252,"He was an inferior actor, but truth now made him excellent; as he went on to announce to Macduff the slaughter of his family, he was afraid to speak, trembling from apprehension of a burst of grief from the audience, not from his fellow mime."
11253,The column seemed very thin indeed as it plodded dreamily into the gulf.
11254,"Alas I now met frowns where before I had been welcomed only with smiles: he, my beloved father, shunned me, and either treated me with harshness or a more heart breaking coldness."
11255,I have scarcely anything to add.
11256,That it is of a remotely ancient date cannot be doubted.
11257,The Automaton does not invariably win the game.
11258,"But my nerveless hands can neither fell the trees, nor smooth the planks."
11259,"Insatiate thirst for knowledge, and boundless affection for Adrian, combined to keep both my heart and understanding occupied, and I was consequently happy."
11260,"At this instant three sturdy waiters had just succeeded in depositing safely upon the table an enormous dish, or trencher, containing what I supposed to be the ""monstrum horrendum, informe, ingens, cui lumen ademptum."""
11261,"She has now him in hers since, being unaware that the letter is not in his possession, he will proceed with his exactions as if it was."
11262,"I came to an open space a mountain of ruin in the midst, announced that some large mosque had occupied the space and here, scattered about, I saw various articles of luxury and wealth, singed, destroyed but shewing what they had been in their ruin jewels, strings of pearls, embroidered robes, rich furs, glittering tapestries, and oriental ornaments, seemed to have been collected here in a pile destined for destruction; but the rain had stopped the havoc midway."
11263,"Besides, his Grace hated a scene De L'Omelette is himself again."
11264,"The small paned windows were largely broken, and a nameless air of desolation hung round the precarious panelling, shaky interior shutters, peeling wall paper, falling plaster, rickety staircases, and such fragments of battered furniture as still remained."
11265,"He soon conquered my latent distaste; I endeavoured to watch him and Perdita, and to keep in mind every thing I had heard to his disadvantage."
11266,"Some of these, as he detailed them, interested and bewildered me; although, perhaps, the terms, and the general manner of the narration had their weight."
11267,A drum in these hills was a thing unknown.
11268,"There was an air distingué pervading the whole man, which spoke of high breeding, and hinted at high birth."
11269,"Come then, no more delay, thou tardy one Behold the pleasant potion Look, I am a spirit of good, and not a human maid that invites thee, and with winning accents, oh, that they would win thee says, Come and drink."""
11270,"I repeat to you, gentlemen, that your inquisition is fruitless."
11271,"But, as I stepped beneath the light of the censer, two circumstances of a startling nature attracted my attention."
11272,"The same peculiarities of character rendered her sorrows agonies; her fancy magnified them, her sensibility made her for ever open to their renewed impression; love envenomed the heart piercing sting."
11273,I am well acquainted with the accused.
11274,"She started up, she threw herself on his neck, she gasped and sobbed; he took her hand, and leading her to the sofa, sat down near her."
11275,"After the lovers again joined me, we supped together in the alcove."
11276,He conquers all by assault.
11277,"His chief amusements were gunning and fishing, or sauntering along the beach and through the myrtles, in quest of shells or entomological specimens; his collection of the latter might have been envied by a Swammerdamm."
11278,"Raymond continued, ""I will not act a part with you, dear girl, or appear other than what I am, weak and unworthy, more fit to excite your disdain than your love."
11279,"Now here, of course, the suspicion is not that, in consequence of these communications, or of the public attention by them directed, the articles were found by the boys; but the suspicion might and may well have been, that the articles were not before found by the boys, for the reason that the articles had not before been in the thicket; having been deposited there only at so late a period as at the date, or shortly prior to the date of the communications by the guilty authors of these communications themselves."
11280,"Then he commenced whispering as in awe: ""El ritmo, Señor el ritmo de la tierra THAT THROB DOWN IN THE GROUND"" And now I also heard; heard and shivered and without knowing why."
11281,"It is a thing very easily done, after all."
11282,"We, finally, lightened the box by removing two thirds of its contents, when we were enabled, with some trouble, to raise it from the hole."
11283,"For now, when the wind sweeps boisterous out of the north past the high ancient house that is one with the firmament, there is broken at last that ominous brooding silence ever before the bane of Kingsport's maritime cotters."
11284,"Letting go, then, his hold upon the rod, placing his feet securely against the wall, and springing boldly from it, he might have swung the shutter so as to close it, and, if we imagine the window open at the time, might even have swung himself into the room."
11285,"Cap'n Ebenezer Holt traded me thet in 'sixty eight him as was kilt in the war."""
11286,"Indeed, I now perceived that I had entirely overdone the business, and that the main consequences of the shock were yet to be experienced."
11287,"He paused, and was lost in thought."
11288,"I dismissed the guests therefore; and they went thoughtful, more than sad, to await the events in store for them."
11289,"""All this,"" I said, ""is exceedingly clear, and, although ingenious, still simple and explicit."
11290,"Why, the absurd twattle is scarcely good enough for the 'Hum Drum,' the 'Rowdy Dow,' the 'Goosetherumfoodle' things that are in the practice of publishing 'Mother Goose's Melodies' as original lyrics."
11291,In time he grew so impatient of the bleak intervals of day that he began buying drugs in order to increase his periods of sleep.
11292,"But I was languid and many hours passed before I could reach the cottage, dragging as I did my slow steps, and often resting on the wet earth unable to proceed."
11293,Affidavits of this character are readily made matter of mystification.
11294,"One or two smaller bouquets adorned the mantel, and late violets clustered about the open windows."
11295,"Now that I am arrived at its base, my pinions are furled, the mighty stairs are before me, and step by step I must ascend the wondrous fane Speak What door is opened?"
11296,We arrived at Kishan on the th of July.
11297,"The cavern shape the stage assumed, the beetling rocks, the glare of the fire, the misty shades that crossed the scene at times, the music in harmony with all witch like fancies, permitted the imagination to revel, without fear of contradiction, or reproof from reason or the heart."
11298,"He looks upon study as an odious fetter; his time is spent in the open air, climbing the hills or rowing on the lake."
11299,"My soul is a fading spark, my nature frail as a spent wave; but I dedicate all of intellect and strength that remains to me, to that one work, and take upon me the task, as far as I am able, of bestowing blessings on my fellow men"" His voice trembled, his eyes were cast up, his hands clasped, and his fragile person was bent, as it were, with excess of emotion."
11300,Noiseless infinity eddied around the dreamer and wafted him away without even touching the body that leaned stiffly from the lonely window; and for days not counted in men's calendars the tides of far spheres bare him gently to join the dreams for which he longed; the dreams that men have lost.
11301,"Years years may pass away, but the memory of that epoch never."
11302,"Each transmitted idea formed rapidly in my mind, and though no actual language was employed, my habitual association of conception and expression was so great that I seemed to be receiving the message in ordinary English."
11303,"This morning the strange pulls from space seemed lessened, though they were replaced by another sensation even more inexplicable."
11304,"And yet I fear it; even as I fear all things; for in any state of being linked by the chain of memory with this, happiness would not return even in Paradise, I must feel that your love was less enduring than the mortal beatings of my fragile heart, every pulse of which knells audibly, The funeral note Of love, deep buried, without resurrection."
11305,"Having at length put my affairs in order, I took my seat very early one morning in the mail stage for , giving it to be understood, among my acquaintances, that business of the last importance required my immediate personal attendance in that city."
11306,"""PIQUANT FACTS FOR SIMILES."
11307,All was strange and admirable to the shepherd of Cumberland.
11308,"But the condition with which it was coupled rendered hesitation, of course, a matter altogether out of the question."
11309,"Oppressed by the recollection of my various misfortunes, I now swallowed double my usual quantity and soon slept profoundly."
11310,"I did n't like de look oh de bug mouff, myself, no how, so I would n't take hold ob him wid my finger, but I cotch him wid a piece ob paper dat I found."
11311,"Then, from the farthermost regions of remoteness, the sound softly glided into existence."
11312,"Then he was perpetually kicking out his heels so so "" ""Mr."
11313,"""You will say, however, that, in the second instance, there was no elopement as imagined."
11314,Upon this point I had been satisfied in my walk with you around the building.
11315,"At the commencement of summer, we began to feel, that the mischief which had taken place in distant countries was greater than we had at first suspected."
11316,"""You will never hear from me again: receive these then as the last words of mine that will ever reach you; and although I have forfeited your filial love, yet regard them I conjure you as a father's command."
11317,an' Gawd in heaven that haff face on top . .
11318,"If it were trebled, however, I could do no more than I have done."""
11319,"On our side the soldiers grasped their arms firmly, and looked with stern glances on the foe."
11320,"A man might be respected with only one of these advantages, but without either he was considered, except in very rare instances, as a vagabond and a slave, doomed to waste his powers for the profits of the chosen few And what was I? Of my creation and creator I was absolutely ignorant, but I knew that I possessed no money, no friends, no kind of property."
11321,"It evidently declined, without any symptom which could lead us to suspect his disease, unless indeed his brightened eyes, animated look, and flustering cheeks, made us dread consumption; but he was without pain or fear."
11322,"The English, whether travellers or residents, came pouring in one great revulsive stream, back on their own country; and with them crowds of Italians and Spaniards."
11323,"I doubt if there were not a dozen gangs, such as described by Madame Deluc, in and about the vicinity of the Barrière du Roule at or about the period of this tragedy."
11324,How shall I ever repay you?
11325,It was not long before I found that Zann's eagerness for my company was not as great as it had seemed while he was persuading me to move down from the fifth story.
11326,"And the King bade him put away his tattered purple, and clothed him in satin and cloth of gold, with rings of green jade and bracelets of tinted ivory, and lodged him in a gilded and tapestried chamber on a bed of sweet carven wood with canopies and coverlets of flower embroidered silk."
11327,My senses were here and there at one and the same moment.
11328,"We are surely doomed to hover continually upon the brink of Eternity, without taking a final plunge into the abyss."
11329,"With sentiments of perfect respect, Your most humble servant, JOHANN HERMAN."
11330,"The professors at Miskatonic had urged him to slacken up, and had voluntarily cut down his course at several points."
11331,"If you really wish me well, you will relieve this excitement."""
11332,The young gentleman had better be sure to wear the crucifix Joe Mazurewicz had given him.
11333,"It was open, with the key still in the door."
11334,"Amidst this elysian realm I dwelt not as a stranger, for each sight and sound was familiar to me; just as it had been for uncounted aeons of eternity before, and would be for like eternities to come."
11335,"I would have seized him, but he eluded me and quitted the house with precipitation."
11336,"Every one awaited, with heartfelt anxiety, the reply of the dignified Smith."
11337,"That is why I continued to feel that Wilcox, somehow cognisant of the old data which my uncle had possessed, had been imposing on the veteran scientist."
11338,"""Used to be talk of a queer foreign kind of jewellery that the sailors and refinery men sometimes sold on the sly, or that was seen once or twice on some of the Marsh womenfolks."
11339,"""As the original design was to cross the British Channel, and alight as near Paris as possible, the voyagers had taken the precaution to prepare themselves with passports directed to all parts of the Continent, specifying the nature of the expedition, as in the case of the Nassau voyage, and entitling the adventurers to exemption from the usual formalities of office: unexpected events, however, rendered these passports superfluous."
11340,"Then the doctor came with his medicine case and asked crisp questions, and removed the patient's outer clothing, shoes, and socks."
11341,He could not return if he would.
11342,The fact in question is indeed the basis of the Eye Sore trade.
11343,"The marshy region began very shortly, with the single track on a low, grassy embankment where the weedy growth was somewhat thinner."
11344,My heart grew sick on account of the dampness of the catacombs.
11345,The whole feat did not occupy a minute.
11346,"You alone, habited in a white robe, passed in all directions musically about me."
11347,"Shall I create another like yourself, whose joint wickedness might desolate the world."
11348,"He makes, in silence, a host of observations and inferences."
11349,And this is the object to which the eyes of the old gentlemen are turned who sit in the leather bottomed arm chairs.
11350,"Saturday the th I spent in total darkness, tormented by thoughts and memories that threatened to overcome my German will."
11351,"I have shown how it is that the body of a drowning man becomes specifically heavier than its bulk of water, and that he would not sink at all, except for the struggles by which he elevates his arms above the surface, and his gasps for breath while beneath the surface gasps which supply by water the place of the original air in the lungs."
11352,A call for the boat to be lowered was echoed from the deck.
11353,"I welcomed my friend, therefore, in the most cordial manner, and we walked towards my college."
11354,I was sorry when I saw that there would be no other passengers on the bus.
11355,"The music died away, the shouts abruptly ended; the soldiers had cleared a space in which a carriage was drawn up."
11356,At the end of the cut it would cross the track and swerve off to a safer distance; but meanwhile I must be exceedingly careful.
11357,"Falsehood and artifice are in themselves so hateful, that, though I still thought I did right, a feeling of shame and guilt came painfully upon me."
11358,"I thought, too, of those nameless swimmers I had seen."
11359,"Delighted and surprised, I embraced her, but as I imprinted the first kiss on her lips, they became livid with the hue of death; her features appeared to change, and I thought that I held the corpse of my dead mother in my arms; a shroud enveloped her form, and I saw the grave worms crawling in the folds of the flannel."
11360,They inspired the soldiers with the same sentiment.
11361,"Toward the middle of the next night he drowsed off in his chair, but soon woke out of a tangle of nightmares almost as hideous as the truths and menaces to man's existence that he had uncovered."
11362,"I at length hit upon the following expedient, which, simple as it may seem, was hailed by me, at the moment of discovery, as an invention fully equal to that of the telescope, the steam engine, or the art of printing itself."
11363,"Before I could recover my sight, the lady of my love had disappeared irreparably affronted at what she chose to consider my premeditated rudeness in passing her by ungreeted."
11364,Could I behold this and live?
11365,"I was sitting by my fire, the physician who had attended me ever since my fever had just left me, and I looked over his prescription in which digitalis was the prominent medecine."
11366,I screamed aloud that I was not afraid; that I never could be afraid; and others screamed with me for solace.
11367,You will stand here just beneath the hole so.
11368,"The mansion was quite a fine one, and, I believe, furnished in good taste."
11369,"And when they were come into the town they found rose wreathed revellers bound from house to house and leaning from windows and balconies, who listened to the songs of Iranon and tossed him flowers and applauded when he was done."
11370,"I stepped to the unobstructed casement, withdrew the nail with some difficulty and attempted to raise the sash."
11371,We did every thing that rational humanity could suggest.
11372,"It was to be hoped that their efforts would succeed, and that though now a prisoner, the sport of cruelty and the mark of hate, he would be rescued from danger and restored to the happiness, power, and honour which he deserved."
11373,"A sandy tongue had formed inside this barrier, and upon it I saw a few decrepit cabins, moored dories, and scattered lobster pots."
11374,"The vault to which I refer is of ancient granite, weathered and discoloured by the mists and dampness of generations."
11375,"Through a species of unutterable horror and awe, for which the language of mortality has no sufficiently energetic expression, I felt my heart cease to beat, my limbs grow rigid where I sat."
11376,"""We do also, unfortunately,"" replied my father, ""for indeed I had rather have been for ever ignorant than have discovered so much depravity and ungratitude in one I valued so highly."""
11377,"It is not the purpose of this work to do more than give in detail, a picture of Mr. Landor's residence as I found it."
11378,From such books I learned all that I know.
11379,"Now he seemed to sense the close presence of some terrible part of the intruding horror, and to glimpse a hellish advance in the black dominion of the ancient and once passive nightmare."
11380,It was their changeling and in a spirit of supreme irony Pickman had given the features a very perceptible resemblance to his own.
11381,I received a terrible beating after which I rolled under a sofa and lay still.
11382,"It will, perhaps, be said, in reply, that a machine such as we have described is altogether above comparison with the Chess Player of Maelzel."
11383,And I have now mentioned all the provinces in which even the most liberal understanding of the poetic sentiment has declared this sentiment capable of expatiating.
11384,"Two biological points he was exceedingly anxious to settle first, whether any amount of consciousness and rational action be possible without the brain, proceeding from the spinal cord and various nerve centres; and second, whether any kind of ethereal, intangible relation distinct from the material cells may exist to link the surgically separated parts of what has previously been a single living organism."
11385,"His cue, which was to perfect an imitation of myself, lay both in words and in actions; and most admirably did he play his part."
11386,"On my way I fell in with an immense populace, crowding through every avenue, all in the same direction, and exhibiting in every action the wildest excitement."
11387,He disregarded the decora of mere fashion.
11388,"""Let 'Oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, send any future composition of like character to the 'Hum Drum,' the 'Lollipop,' or the 'Rowdy Dow,' They will 'insert' it."
11389,"In the end the three men from Arkham old, white bearded Dr. Armitage, stocky, iron grey Professor Rice, and lean, youngish Dr. Morgan ascended the mountain alone."
11390,"The greatest height ever reached by man was that of , feet, attained in the aeronautic expedition of Messieurs Gay Lussac and Biot."
11391,"True to its own character, my disorder revelled in the less important but more startling changes wrought in the physical frame of Berenice in the singular and most appalling distortion of her personal identity."
11392,"How his sagacity first discovered at all that so petty a thing would vex me, is a question I never could solve; but, having discovered, he habitually practised the annoyance."
11393,"A dull shock like that of electricity pervaded my frame, and was followed by total loss of the idea of contact."
11394,"This, proud noble, is your last night Perdita has bestowed on it all of magnificent and dazzling that your heart best loves but, from these gorgeous rooms, from this princely attendance, from power and elevation, you must return with to morrow's sun to our rural abode; for I would not buy an immortality of joy, by the endurance of one more week sister to the last."
11395,"At this occupation I did a good deal; but, somehow, I was not quite satisfied, and so finally abandoned it."
11396,But I am meek and expire with an humble heart.
11397,"One bound, and I had reached her feet Shrinking from my touch, she let fall from her head, unloosened, the ghastly cerements which had confined it, and there streamed forth, into the rushing atmosphere of the chamber, huge masses of long and dishevelled hair; it was blacker than the raven wings of the midnight And now slowly opened the eyes of the figure which stood before me."
11398,"My friend shortened the harangue, by taking the man's torch from him; and we proceeded alone."
11399,"""The next point to be regarded was a matter of far greater importance."
11400,"On the whole island there were but three miserable huts, and one of these was vacant when I arrived."
11401,"The slip was eighteen inches wide, and therefore, although of muslin, would form a strong band when folded or rumpled longitudinally."
11402,We travelled at the time of the vintage and heard the song of the labourers as we glided down the stream.
11403,This abode of penury may at least prove the disinterestedness of my conduct.
11404,"The officials devised excuses not to enter the noisome boarded place; and were glad to confine their survey of the deceased's living quarters, the newly mended sheds, to a single visit."
11405,"Everything was wrong, with the broad window shewing a sea of roofs in which only about one in five was ancient, and the sound of trolleys and motors in the streets below."
11406,I can't bear to hear innocent individuals abused and the way the whole town took to cursing Tom Dobson and Bobby Tompkins was really awful to hear.
11407,"And the struggles of the passionate wife were, to my astonishment, even more energetic than my own."
11408,"When we did turn, it was to climb through the deserted length of the oldest and dirtiest alley I ever saw in my life, with crumbling looking gables, broken small paned windows, and archaic chimneys that stood out half disintegrated against the moonlit sky."
11409,It had then filled me with a sublime ecstasy that gave wings to the soul and allowed it to soar from the obscure world to light and joy.
11410,"We then assigned to man an organ of alimentiveness, and this organ is the scourge with which the Deity compels man, will I nill I, into eating."
11411,"One hands him the ""Times,"" another the ""Examiner"" and a third a ""Culley's New Compendium of Slang Whang."""
11412,"Scenes were blocked out with extreme care, and pencilled guide lines told of the minute exactitude which Pickman used in getting the right perspective and proportions."
11413,It was easier to tear a new slip from the petticoat.
11414,"""This is infinitely ridiculous,"" he cried, ""if you were school boys, you could not conduct yourselves more unreasonably."""
11415,"Both then withdrew; though, as she went, the Countess said, ""Softly; all sleep; though all have not been prepared for sleep, like her."
11416,A hint is the only answer which I am permitted to make.
11417,"To live, according to this sense of the word, we must not only observe and learn, we must also feel; we must not be mere spectators of action, we must act; we must not describe, but be subjects of description."
11418,"It was the design of the journalist to say that, at whatever period of the day or night of Sunday this murder was committed, it was improbable that the assassins would have ventured to bear the corpse to the river before midnight."
11419,Once it was so; now is man lord of the creation?
11420,"I said in one of my letters, my dear Margaret, that I should find no friend on the wide ocean; yet I have found a man who, before his spirit had been broken by misery, I should have been happy to have possessed as the brother of my heart."
11421,"At this moment I felt a light hand placed upon my shoulder, and that ever remembered, low, damnable whisper within my ear."
11422,The remaining two had gone back wordlessly to their mountains and this autumn not a single villager had disappeared.
11423,"For alone, when no voice can disturb my dream, and no cold eye meet mine to check its fire, then I may commune with his spirit; on a lone heath, at noon or at midnight, still I should be near him."
11424,Indeed it is very damp.
11425,"But still there remained that burning determination to reach the innermost secret of the fear, which I had once more come to deem definite, material, and organic."
11426,Two or three petitioners were still in attendance.
11427,"""Can you dare you go far?"""
11428,"Louis, son to Robert, was found drowned in the moat at the same fateful age, and thus down through the centuries ran the ominous chronicle; Henris, Roberts, Antoines, and Armands snatched from happy and virtuous lives when little below the age of their unfortunate ancestor at his murder."
11429,"In other studies you go as far as others have gone before you, and there is nothing more to know; but in a scientific pursuit there is continual food for discovery and wonder."
11430,"It seems, however, that while digging in the centre of the emperors garden, which, you know, covers the whole island, some of the workmen unearthed a cubical and evidently chiseled block of granite, weighing several hundred pounds."
11431,"The shock of the descending mass struck her, consequently, in that portion of her frame which was already under water, and the inevitable result was to hurl me, with irresistible violence, upon the rigging of the stranger."
11432,Fortunately I had money with me.
11433,"I knew very well that we were doomed, had we been ten times a ninety gun ship."
11434,"Out of that crash came darkness, and I heard the shrieking of men and of things which were not men."
11435,"Europe cannot produce anything so fine as this, my little regal cabinet."
11436,"During my first experiment, a kind of enthusiastic frenzy had blinded me to the horror of my employment; my mind was intently fixed on the consummation of my labour, and my eyes were shut to the horror of my proceedings."
11437,It was one of profound melancholy of a phaseless and unceasing gloom.
11438,"How long it lasted of course, I know not; but when, once again, I unclosed my eyes, the objects around me were visible."
11439,"The application of this to your own case is obvious for I trust, Miss Psyche, that you will not neglect to kick for at least an hour and a half after you have been choked to death by that chicken bone."
11440,It was altogether by means of magnetic remedies that he had succeeded in alleviating the acute pains of his patient; and this success had very naturally inspired the latter with a certain degree of confidence in the opinions from which the remedies had been educed.
11441,"Several times he had actually obtained signs of life in animals supposedly dead; in many cases violent signs; but he soon saw that the perfection of this process, if indeed possible, would necessarily involve a lifetime of research."
11442,"We had lived so long in the vicinity of Eton, that its population of young folks was well known to us."
11443,"Alas I even now look back with disgust at my artifices and contrivances by which, after many painful struggles, I effected my retreat."
11444,"Spent a great part of the day in meditating upon an occurrence so extraordinary, but could find no means whatever of accounting for it."
11445,His condition was more ghastly.
11446,"Stung with impatience, I urged my horse with force of spur and loosened reins down the acclivity, that, before danger could arrive, I might be at the side of my noble, godlike friend."
11447,Nevertheless he is confirmed in his instinctive opinions by the voice of all his brethren.
11448,"The eyes approached, yet of the thing that bore them I could distinguish only a claw."
11449,"Upon the whole, I could not help thinking that there was much of the bizarre about every thing I saw but then the world is made up of all kinds of persons, with all modes of thought, and all sorts of conventional customs."
11450,"I cannot even hint what it was like, for it was a compound of all that is unclean, uncanny, unwelcome, abnormal, and detestable."
11451,"The pitiable condition of my dupe had thrown an air of embarrassed gloom over all; and, for some moments, a profound silence was maintained, during which I could not help feeling my cheeks tingle with the many burning glances of scorn or reproach cast upon me by the less abandoned of the party."
11452,"However it might be, neither plague nor war could prevent Perdita from following her lord, or induce her to utter one objection to the plans which he proposed."
11453,"""Then I fancy we have seen him, for the day before we picked you up we saw some dogs drawing a sledge, with a man in it, across the ice."""
11454,"Our friendship lasted, in this manner, for several years, during which my general temperament and character through the instrumentality of the Fiend Intemperance had I blush to confess it experienced a radical alteration for the worse."
11455,He never had any nerves.
11456,"They had talked about dying and half deserted Innsmouth for nearly a century, and nothing new could be wilder or more hideous than what they had whispered and hinted years before."
11457,There were no attendants at home; they had absconded to make merry in honor of the time.
11458,Unreal Even while I breathed there came to my nostrils the breath of the vapour of heated iron A suffocating odour pervaded the prison A deeper glow settled each moment in the eyes that glared at my agonies A richer tint of crimson diffused itself over the pictured horrors of blood.
11459,"At length I reached the lower hall, at one end of which I saw a faint luminous rectangle marking the ruined Paine Street doorway."
11460,"At the hospital they told me I had been found half frozen in Kingsport Harbour at dawn, clinging to the drifting spar that accident sent to save me."
11461,"It was the height of his offending, that he should occasion in me such intolerable sensations, and not deign himself to afford any demonstration that he was aware that I even lived to feel them."
11462,Ignoble souls De L'Omelette perished of an ortolan.
11463,There does not exist the man in England with adequate presumption.
11464,"At the college we used an incinerator, but the apparatus was too costly for our unauthorised laboratory."
11465,Trembling with a terror oddly mixed with ecstasy I crossed the circular room to the north window from which I could see the village and the plain at the edge of the bog.
11466,"After some minutes, as if urged by curiosity to see if I was still looking, she gradually brought her face again around and again encountered my burning gaze."
11467,"I, a miserable wretch, haunted by a curse that shut up every avenue to enjoyment."
11468,"In the evening they drowsily discussed the mathematical studies which had so completely and perhaps harmfully engrossed Gilman, and speculated about the linkage with ancient magic and folklore which seemed so darkly probable."
11469,"I was aware also that I should often lose all self command, all capacity of hiding the harrowing sensations that would possess me during the progress of my unearthly occupation."
11470,"Having failed to fall, it was no part of the demon plan to hurl me into the abyss; and thus there being no alternative a different and a milder destruction awaited me."
11471,Nor could I consider the magnitude and complexity of my plan as any argument of its impracticability.
11472,"Idris, who entertained the highest opinion of his abilities, was warmly interested in the event: and my poor sister, who dared not hope, and to whom fear was misery, was plunged into a fever of disquietude."
11473,"Blue, green, grey, white, or black; smooth, ruffled, or mountainous; that ocean is not silent."
11474,"I conceived it possible, in either instance, that they might thus be whirled up again to the level of the ocean, without undergoing the fate of those which had been drawn in more early, or absorbed more rapidly."
11475,"Upon seeing the body, Beauvais, after some hesitation, identified it as that of the perfumery girl."
11476,She seemed to consider that through me she had lost Raymond; I was the evil influence of her life; I was even accused of encreasing and confirming the mad and base apostacy of Adrian from all views of advancement and grandeur; and now this miserable mountaineer was to steal her daughter.
11477,"But one autumnal evening, when the winds lay still in heaven, Morella called me to her bedside."
11478,"Every thing was made snug, alow and aloft; and as the wind steadily freshened, we lay to, at length, under spanker and foretopsail, both double reefed."
11479,There was a mad disorder in my thoughts a tumult unappeasable.
11480,"The latter, he had said, was the daughter of a Portuguese trader whom he had met in Africa; and did not like English ways."
11481,Now he felt that he must go north infinitely north.
11482,"But his fate was still uncertain; she began to fear the worst, and to feel that her soul's hope was cast on a chance that might prove a blank."
11483,Perhaps it might be traced to the manner; yet here again I could not pretend to be positive.
11484,"Amazement was, of course, predominant."
11485,"But, with severe labor and unremitting perseverance, I at length met with entire success in all my preparations."
11486,"I had never, seemingly, heard human speech before; and could guess only vaguely what was said."
11487,"It was a fearful page in the record my existence, written all over with dim, and hideous, and unintelligible recollections."
11488,"""'Il y a à parièr,'"" replied Dupin, quoting from Chamfort, ""'que toute idée publique, toute convention reçue est une sottise, car elle a convenue au plus grand nombre.'"
11489,I look for the man here in this room every moment.
11490,But compared with her friend she is as a rush light to the evening star a glow worm to Antares.
11491,"Cheer up, or I shall make you over to Idris, and call Adrian into the carriage, who, I see by his gesture, sympathizes with my good spirits."""
11492,"West and I had met in college, and I had been the only one to sympathise with his hideous experiments."
11493,"""As night came on, Agatha and the Arabian retired early."
11494,"I threw the door forcibly open, as children are accustomed to do when they expect a spectre to stand in waiting for them on the other side; but nothing appeared."
11495,"Many would have disliked to live if possessed of the peculiar features of Arthur Jermyn, but he had been a poet and scholar and had not minded."
11496,What madness now possessed me?
11497,I struggled I gasped I died.
11498,"Now life is all that we covet; that this automaton of flesh should, with joints and springs in order, perform its functions, that this dwelling of the soul should be capable of containing its dweller."
11499,He has an object in view his pocket and yours.
11500,For the first time during many hours or perhaps days I thought.
11501,"You may give up your purpose, but mine is assigned to me by heaven, and I dare not."
11502,"And the day wore on, and still Olney listened to rumours of old times and far places, and heard how the Kings of Atlantis fought with the slippery blasphemies that wriggled out of rifts in ocean's floor, and how the pillared and weedy temple of Poseidonis is still glimpsed at midnight by lost ships, who know by its sight that they are lost."
11503,"While you ascertain the validity of the affidavits, I will examine the newspapers more generally than you have as yet done."
11504,The weather during our journey had been serene.
11505,"Adrian, Idris and I, were established in Windsor Castle; Lord Raymond and my sister, inhabited a house which the former had built on the borders of the Great Park, near Perdita's cottage, as was still named the low roofed abode, where we two, poor even in hope, had each received the assurance of our felicity."
11506,"But it cast a shadow of myself and the cot on the floor, and had a yellowish, penetrating force that hinted at things more potent than luminosity."
11507,"I had been on a long visit to my parents in Illinois, and upon my return found West in a state of singular elation."
11508,"When I finally found myself adrift and free, I had but little idea of my surroundings."
11509,"There had been a strange kidnapping the night before in Orne's Gangway, and the two year old child of a clod like laundry worker named Anastasia Wolejko had completely vanished from sight."
11510,I own that I did not see her misfortune with the same eyes as Perdita.
11511,"From the rubbish of an old book stall, in a very remote corner of the town, I got together several antique and altogether unknown or forgotten volumes."
11512,"But, even though threatened by famine, her fear of the plague was paramount; and her greatest care was to avoid her fellow creatures."
11513,"The vault had been dug from a hillside, so that the narrow ventilation funnel in the top ran through several feet of earth, making this direction utterly useless to consider."
11514,Gradually I came to wonder what might be my place in that city on the strange plateau betwixt strange peaks.
11515,I knew the sound well.
11516,I took no merit to myself for this.
11517,"""Well, well,"" I said, ""perhaps you have still I don't see them;"" and I handed him the paper without additional remark, not wishing to ruffle his temper; but I was much surprised at the turn affairs had taken; his ill humor puzzled me and, as for the drawing of the beetle, there were positively no antennæ visible, and the whole did bear a very close resemblance to the ordinary cuts of a death's head."
11518,M. Valdemar spoke obviously in reply to the question I had propounded to him a few minutes before.
11519,"""This is going too far,"" her mother answered, with quivering lips, and eyes again instinct by anger."
11520,"Clinging, with the dastard feeling of the aged, to the remnant of her spent life, she had, on hearing that the pestilence had come into her neighbourhood, barred her door, and closed her casement, refusing to communicate with any."
11521,"He sat beside her; and, taking the paper from her hand, said, ""Not a word more shall my sweet Perdita read of this contention of madmen and fools."
11522,"I knew we must have passed down through the mountain and beneath the earth of Kingsport itself, and I shivered that a town should be so aged and maggoty with subterraneous evil."
11523,"For a second nobody dared to turn on the light, then Armitage summoned up his courage and snapped the switch."
11524,"In either case it would have been appropriate; for the unexpected tenacity of the easy looking brickwork was surely a sardonic commentary on the vanity of mortal hopes, and the source of a task whose performance deserved every possible stimulus."
11525,"The impressions wrought on the observer were those of richness, warmth, color, quietude, uniformity, softness, delicacy, daintiness, voluptuousness, and a miraculous extremeness of culture that suggested dreams of a new race of fairies, laborious, tasteful, magnificent, and fastidious; but as the eye traced upward the myriad tinted slope, from its sharp junction with the water to its vague termination amid the folds of overhanging cloud, it became, indeed, difficult not to fancy a panoramic cataract of rubies, sapphires, opals, and golden onyxes, rolling silently out of the sky."
11526,"It had been long known that the air which encircled us was a compound of oxygen and nitrogen gases, in the proportion of twenty one measures of oxygen, and seventy nine of nitrogen in every one hundred of the atmosphere."
11527,"Then thought trickled back, and I knew that I had witnessed things more horrible than I had dreamed."
11528,"She died; and I, crushed into the very dust with sorrow, could no longer endure the lonely desolation of my dwelling in the dim and decaying city by the Rhine."
11529,"When love is no longer akin to hate, then brotherhood will exist: we are very far from that state at present."" ""Not so far as you may suppose,"" observed a little old astronomer, by name Merrival, ""the poles precede slowly, but securely; in an hundred thousand years "" ""We shall all be underground,"" said Ryland."
11530,"Her views with regard to her own children, placed all her words and actions relative to them under restraint: but Evadne was a plaything she could in no way fear; nor were her talents and vivacity slight alleviations to the monotony of the Countess's life."
11531,"In the mean time, Raymond had remained with Adrian and Idris."
11532,"We were directed to the ward where her husband had been first taken, and still was, the nurse said, if alive."
11533,"How they would, each and all, abhor me and hunt me from the world did they know my unhallowed acts and the crimes which had their source in me My father yielded at length to my desire to avoid society and strove by various arguments to banish my despair."
11534,"I reply that the skull, or death's head, is the well known emblem of the pirate."
11535,"I had been calm during the day, but so soon as night obscured the shapes of objects, a thousand fears arose in my mind."
11536,It was no wonder that his condition terrified that it infected me.
11537,"He will feel highly honoured, and thus you may repay a part of the obligation I owe him, and compensate for the injuries fortune has done him."""
11538,"The page put up the steps, closed the door, and resumed his station."
11539,"But repugnance was soon forgotten in admiration, for the strange physician's extreme skill at once became manifest despite the ice coldness and shakiness of his bloodless looking hands."
11540,"I will say no more; for I can add nothing to what I have already said, to what you before contemptuously set aside."
11541,"The word ""husband"" seemed forever to use one of her own delicate expressions forever ""on the tip of her tongue."""
11542,This worry had probably been a major cause of his mother's death two years before.
11543,Beyond the worlds vague ghosts of monstrous things; half seen columns of unsanctified temples that rest on nameless rocks beneath space and reach up to dizzy vacua above the spheres of light and darkness.
11544,"And the children would listen, and learn of the laws and deeds of old, and of that dear England which they had never seen, or could not remember."
11545,"Little Evelyn had endeavoured to draw Clara away to play with him; but the Italian's tale arrested her, she crept near, her lustrous eyes fixed on the speaker."
11546,"She received my concurrence with pleasure, and a thousand times over thanked her deceiving, deceitful brother."
11547,"""Notwithstanding the acclamation with which the discovery of this thicket was received by the press, and the unanimity with which it was supposed to indicate the precise scene of the outrage, it must be admitted that there was some very good reason for doubt."
11548,On spring evenings it would be low in the northeast.
11549,"The concentrated pride of her nature, forgotten during her blissful dream, awoke, and with its adder's sting pierced her heart; her humility of spirit augmented the power of the venom; she had been exalted in her own estimation, while distinguished by his love: of what worth was she, now that he thrust her from this preferment?"
11550,"He snatched his hand from me, and rose in violent disorder: ""What do you mean?"
11551,"They had not seen it, but had heard such cries from one of their hamlets that they knew a creeping death had come."
11552,This the deceased lady's maid was easily prevailed on to do.
11553,"""Suppose you detail,"" said I, ""the particulars of your search."""
11554,In this latter science it is very usually untrue that the aggregated parts are equal to the whole.
11555,"Next morning the population of Nopolis were taken all aback by reading in 'The Tea Pot,' the following extraordinary leader: 'Sx hx, Jxhn hxw nxw?"
11556,"I was between my two companions, George Bennett being toward the window and William Tobey toward the fireplace."
11557,"The street lights we first encountered had been of oil, and of the ancient lozenge pattern."
11558,The table was superbly set out.
11559,"And so they went up wildly over rocks and gulfs, slipping and stumbling, and sometimes awed at the vastness and horrible silence of bleak ice pinnacles and mute granite steeps."
11560,"In snatches, they learn something of the wisdom which is of good, and more of the mere knowledge which is of evil."
11561,"May I say that he flouted the sanctity of things as great as space and time, and that he put to strange uses the rites of sartain half breed red Indians once encamped upon this hill?"
11562,"The sorry planet shell being well nigh spent, in less than an hour my fellow would be free to pursue the oppressor along the Milky Way and past the hither stars to the very confines of infinity."
11563,"My memory flew back, oh, with what intensity of regret to Ligeia, the beloved, the august, the beautiful, the entombed."
11564,"But it is by these deviations from the plane of the ordinary, that reason feels its way, if at all, in its search for the true."
11565,"And his brow was lofty with thought, and his eye wild with care; and, in the few furrows upon his cheek I read the fables of sorrow, and weariness, and disgust with mankind, and a longing after solitude."
11566,"""Come, I see that you have already cast aside the sad thoughts you before franticly indulged."
11567,"""But the real thing behind the way folks feel is simply race prejudice and I don't say I'm blaming those that hold it."
11568,"""Your affectionate and afflicted father, ""Alphonse Frankenstein."
11569,We had our separate occupations and our common amusements.
11570,"My street inquiries about ""the lovely widow, Madame Lalande,"" were supposed to refer to the younger lady, of course, and thus the conversation with the three gentlemen whom I encountered shortly after leaving Talbot's hotel will be easily explained, as also their allusion to Ninon De L'Enclos."
11571,"Since you left us, but one change has taken place in our little household."
11572,"We, a commercial people, were obliged to bring such schemes under consideration; and the question of contagion became matter of earnest disquisition."
11573,"And in sooth some who beheld the portrait spoke of its resemblance in low words, as of a mighty marvel, and a proof not less of the power of the painter than of his deep love for her whom he depicted so surpassingly well."
11574,"Now that unchanged serenity, and gentle compliance were added to her other qualifications, his respect equalled his love."
11575,"By authority of the king such districts were placed under ban, and all persons forbidden, under pain of death, to intrude upon their dismal solitude."
11576,"A housekeeper in want of a sofa, for instance, is seen to go in and out of several cabinet warehouses."
11577,"I was now shaking with a deadly fear, and the bearded man almost had to hold me up as he walked me across the room to the mirror, the faint lamp i.e., that formerly on the table, not the still fainter lantern he had brought in his free hand."
11578,"""Yes,"" I said, ""I see how this is, and it is strange that I should have deceived myself so long; I am about to die an innocent death, and it will be sweeter even than that which the opium promised."""
11579,"This young gentleman was of an excellent indeed of an illustrious family, but, by a variety of untoward events, had been reduced to such poverty that the energy of his character succumbed beneath it, and he ceased to bestir himself in the world, or to care for the retrieval of his fortunes."
11580,"""I presume you looked to the mirrors, between the boards and the plates, and you probed the beds and the bed clothes, as well as the curtains and carpets."""
11581,"Ligeia had brought me far more, very far more than ordinarily falls to the lot of mortals."
11582,"Her eyes her magnificent eyes, had not belied her noble heart."
11583,"Anaxagoras, it will be remembered, maintained that snow is black, and this I have since found to be the case."
11584,"It remains for a more profound analysis than the world has yet seen, fully to investigate and express them."
11585,"Indeed this matter is susceptible of a mathematical demonstration, a priori."
11586,In appearance all were marked by a peculiar inherited dissimilarity of eyes; one generally being blue and the other brown.
11587,"Accordingly I continued my experiments, though informing no one of their nature."
11588,"The gloomy and dreary grandeur of the building, the almost savage aspect of the domain, the many melancholy and time honored memories connected with both, had much in unison with the feelings of utter abandonment which had driven me into that remote and unsocial region of the country."
11589,He treads on your corns.
11590,"The strange stone house on the woodland slope was to me only a source of interest and speculation; and its cold, damp interior, into which I vainly peered through the aperture so tantalisingly left, contained for me no hint of death or decay."
11591,"""Sir"" said I to him, ""you are a baboon."""
11592,"It was seen, that even at three per cent, the annual income of the inheritance amounted to no less than thirteen millions and five hundred thousand dollars; which was one million and one hundred and twenty five thousand per month; or thirty six thousand, nine hundred and eighty six per day, or one thousand five hundred and forty one per hour, or six and twenty dollars for every minute that flew."
11593,confused me in no little degree.
11594,"It entered the lungs, and in a few days killed him."""
11595,Was that was that was that rouge?
11596,"Under the influence of these melancholy thoughts, she became more than ever in love with sorrow."
11597,"But not many flags floated over The Street, for therein brooded only fear and hatred and ignorance."
11598,"But I was in reality very ill, and surely nothing but the unbounded and unremitting attentions of my friend could have restored me to life."
11599,"Once, when thirteen years of age, I was sent for a month to the county jail."
11600,"The opinion of Bob, the devil who kept dark about his having 'X ed the paragrab', did not meet with so much attention as I think it deserved, although it was very openly and very fearlessly expressed."
11601,"It might have been done under the Act for the ""Prevention of Cruelty to Animals."""
11602,"Mought ventur out leetle way pon de limb by myself, dat's true."" ""By yourself what do you mean?"" ""Why I mean de bug."
11603,"This complexion, the 'hitch' in the bandage, and the 'sailor's knot,' with which the bonnet ribbon is tied, point to a seaman."
11604,"By the fourth evening I attained the base of the mound, which turned out to be much higher than it had appeared from a distance; an intervening valley setting it out in sharper relief from the general surface."
11605,That Mrs. Lackobreath should admire anything so dissimilar to myself was a natural and necessary evil.
11606,"As our distance from the wreck rapidly increased, the madman for as such only could we regard him was seen to emerge from the companion way, up which by dint of strength that appeared gigantic, he dragged, bodily, the oblong box."
11607,"Pest spirits, plague goblins, and fever demons, were the popular imps of mischief; and tales so blood chilling were hourly told, that the whole mass of forbidden buildings was, at length, enveloped in terror as in a shroud, and the plunderer himself was often scared away by the horrors his own depreciations had created; leaving the entire vast circuit of prohibited district to gloom, silence, pestilence, and death."
11608,This latter I felt not saw.
11609,"Maelzel, having now rolled the machine around, lifted up the drapery of the Turk, opened the doors in his back and thigh, and shown his trunk to be full of machinery, brings the whole back into its original position, and closes the doors."
11610,"I mean the man who took himself for a bottle of champagne, and always went off with a pop and a fizz, in this fashion."""
11611,"In the brief existence of Ellison, I fancy, that I have seen refuted the dogma that in man's physical and spiritual nature, lies some hidden principle, the antagonist of Bliss."
11612,"And the dress had trimmings of green agraffas, and seven graceful flounces of the orange colored auricula."
11613,"There was something there and now I can't use the subway or and you may as well have your laugh at this, too go down into cellars any more."
11614,"""Nor is it to be thought,"" ran the text as Armitage mentally translated it, ""that man is either the oldest or the last of earth's masters, or that the common bulk of life and substance walks alone."
11615,"This opinion, in its general form, was that of the sentience of all vegetable things."
11616,"""Stay a moment I see a vast hubbub in the hippodrome; what is the meaning of it, I beseech you?"" That? oh, nothing The noble and free citizens of Epidaphne being, as they declare, well satisfied of the faith, valor, wisdom, and divinity of their king, and having, moreover, been eye witnesses of his late superhuman agility, do think it no more than their duty to invest his brows in addition to the poetic crown with the wreath of victory in the footrace a wreath which it is evident he must obtain at the celebration of the next Olympiad, and which, therefore, they now give him in advance."
11617,"I find myself, for one, as a stringed instrument with chords and stops but I have no power to turn the pegs, or pitch my thoughts to a higher or lower key."""
11618,"And herein lies, really, the assumption of which I complain."
11619,For this they assign the very good reason that they do not believe there is anything at all on the other side.
11620,But perhaps you do not comprehend me.
11621,I met him at the distance of thirty miles from our mansion.
11622,"What is made to adjust itself, must of necessity require foreign adjustment but rarely."
11623,"So a body of twenty police, filling two carriages and an automobile, had set out in the late afternoon with the shivering squatter as a guide."
11624,"I was by this time his active and enthralled assistant, and helped him make all his decisions, not only concerning the source of bodies but concerning a suitable place for our loathsome work."
11625,"The more he withdrew from the world about him, the more wonderful became his dreams; and it would have been quite futile to try to describe them on paper."
11626,They attired me for the coffin three or four dark figures which flitted busily to and fro.
11627,"Henry rejoiced in my gaiety, and sincerely sympathised in my feelings: he exerted himself to amuse me, while he expressed the sensations that filled his soul."
11628,"In the mean time, we, the wise of the land, will return to our Castle, and, Cincinnatus like, take to our usual labours, until our friend shall require our presence and assistance here."""
11629,"The dark blocks of granite, the door so curiously ajar, and the funereal carvings above the arch, aroused in me no associations of mournful or terrible character."
11630,Such sentiments actuated our little circle.
11631,"Bless thy child even even sic in death, as I bless thee; and let me sleep at peace in my quiet grave."""
11632,"I was up ta his haouse onct, on the hill, tradin' hosses, when I see this book."
11633,"The government men never found poor Zadok, and have no conjectures to make as to what became of him."
11634,"""Then there is the tone elevated, diffusive, and interjectional."
11635,"Then, in spite of my daze of fright and disgust, my morbid curiosity triumphed; and as the last of the monstrosities oozed up alone from that nether world of unknown nightmare, I drew my automatic pistol and shot it under cover of the thunder."
11636,"So liberal, indeed, was the discipline of our captors, that five days after we were taken I managed to escape alone in a small boat with water and provisions for a good length of time."
11637,"""Let me entreat Adrian,"" I cried, ""not to comply: rather join with me in endeavouring to withdraw Lord Raymond from this scene, and restore him to other society."""
11638,CHAPTER IX Thus I passed two years.
11639,"She seemed to crystallise at a point closer to the ceiling than to the floor, and every night she was a little nearer and more distinct before the dream shifted."
11640,I love my cousin tenderly and sincerely.
11641,Several faces I recognised; though I should have known them better had they been shrivelled or eaten away by death and decomposition.
11642,"Plague is the companion of spring, of sunshine, and plenty."
11643,"That the public were misled, even for an instant, merely proves the gross ignorance which is so generally prevalent upon subjects of an astronomical nature."
11644,"I sat on the sole remaining step of an edifice, which even in its downfall, was huge and magnificent; a few broken walls, not dislodged by gunpowder, stood in fantastic groupes, and a flame glimmered at intervals on the summit of the pile."
11645,"Toward the end of March he began to pick up in his mathematics, though other studies bothered him increasingly."
11646,"It was the shrieking fulfilment of all the horror which that corpse city had ever stirred in my soul, and forgetting every injunction to silence I screamed and screamed and screamed as my nerves gave way and the walls quivered about me."
11647,"""Talk not of other season than this"" he cried."
11648,"By this time it began to grow dark, and I directed my steps toward home."
11649,"""Ring de pell;"" he replied, attempting a grin with his little villanous mouth."
11650,I breathed the free air of Heaven.
11651,"But when any whole nation becomes the victim of the destructive powers of exterior agents, then indeed man shrinks into insignificance, he feels his tenure of life insecure, his inheritance on earth cut off."
11652,lower than her expectations.
11653,"As for the Angel, he evinced his sense of my assault by giving me two or three hard consecutive raps upon the forehead as before."
11654,"They are grown stern, and where once they suffered men to displace them, they now forbid men to come, or coming, to depart."
11655,"""And what means are ours, of attaining the truth?"
11656,"""I may state the system, then, in general terms, as one in which the patients were menages humored."
11657,I thought upon other subjects than Death.
11658,"From such scenes I have sometimes saved a deserted infant sometimes led a young and grieving mother from the lifeless image of her first born, or drawn the sturdy labourer from childish weeping over his extinct family."
11659,"Believe me, he was destined to be the author of infinite good to his native England."
11660,"I had before regarded my promise with a gloomy despair as a thing that, with whatever consequences, must be fulfilled; but I now felt as if a film had been taken from before my eyes and that I for the first time saw clearly."
11661,This is the last rational act I ever performed.
11662,It moved every feeling of wonder and awe that the picture of an omnipotent God warring with his creatures was capable of exciting.
11663,"""Never mind the sky, but attend to what I say."
11664,"It is well known to most of my fellow citizens, that for the period of forty years I continued to occupy the little square brick building, at the head of the alley called Sauerkraut, in which I resided at the time of my disappearance."
11665,"I feared madness, not sickness I have a presentiment that Adrian will not die; perhaps this illness is a crisis, and he may recover."""
11666,He handed me the volume and asked me to look over some portion of it.
11667,"Inside the hall were music, laughter, and wine on every hand."
11668,What shall we first seek here?
11669,"With a shriek I bounded to the table, and grasped the box that lay upon it."
11670,Her expressive eyes were two stars whose beams were love; hope and light heartedness sat on her cloudless brow.
11671,"When he found me a vagabond shepherd of the hills, a poacher, an unlettered savage, still his kindness did not fail."
11672,"I had been living in many poor places, always evicted for want of money; until at last I came upon that tottering house in the Rue d'Auseil, kept by the paralytic Blandot."
11673,"As he copied the formula he finally chose, Dr. Armitage looked involuntarily over his shoulder at the open pages; the left hand one of which, in the Latin version, contained such monstrous threats to the peace and sanity of the world."
11674,"Upon landing in Salem Zerubbabel set it up in his cupboard beside the chimney, he having built a modest house near the town pump."
11675,"I showed him the insect, and he begged me to let him take it to the fort."
11676,"Sawyer, as clumsy as most non users of optical devices are, fumbled a while; but eventually focussed the lenses with Armitage's aid."
11677,"In my mind I would often picture the unknown Land of Cathuria with its splendid groves and palaces, and would wonder what new delights there awaited me."
11678,"The Turkish army were at this time besieging Rodosto; and the Greeks, hastening their preparations, and sending each day reinforcements, were on the eve of forcing the enemy to battle."
11679,"She gazed on some flowers that stood near in a carved vase: that morning she had arranged them, they were rare and lovely plants; even now all aghast as she was, she observed their brilliant colours and starry shapes."
11680,"""Some chicken"" leered a drunken man as he viewed the beautiful face, but those who were sober did not leer, looking with respect and abashment at the delicate and spiritual features."
11681,"From a fourth, which I recollect was also the work of a blind man, I selected a page or two all about ""hail"" and ""holy light""; and although a blind man has no business to write about light, still the verses were sufficiently good in their way."
11682,But let us change the subject.
11683,"Meantime, the excitement increased hourly."
11684,But I will not be tempted to set myself in opposition to thee.
11685,"Write You can get them that way at Tortoni's Write, if you please ""Here is a nice little Latin phrase, and rare too, one can't be too recherche or brief in one's Latin, it's getting so common ignoratio elenchi."
11686,"For example: no very long while ago, a singular circumstance occurred in this very house."
11687,"immediately, he bolted out behind, and turning down an alley, was out of sight in the twinkling of an eye."
11688,They did not arouse me from my slumber for I was wide awake when I screamed but they restored me to the full possession of my memory.
11689,"Raymond's beloved Athenians, the free, the noble people of the divinest town in Greece, fell like ripe corn before the merciless sickle of the adversary."
11690,"But now what treasure does the world hold what threat of vengeance could it hold out which would have power to urge the return of that lonely murderer over that toilsome and perilous path, to the thicket and its blood chilling recollections?"
11691,"Next there came to me the impression of light amidst the darkness of dead batteries, and I seemed to see a sort of phosphorescent glow in the water through the porthole which opened toward the temple."
11692,"We had, as in my own former explorations, left the door to the street unlocked; so that a direct and practical path of escape might lie open in case of manifestations beyond our power to deal with."
11693,I assented; adding that I had not yet concluded my third lustrum.
11694,"And now, while I write, a recollection flashes upon me that I have never known the paternal name of her who was my friend and my betrothed, and who became the partner of my studies, and finally the wife of my bosom."
11695,"That same invincible monster, which hovered over and devoured Constantinople that fiend more cruel than tempest, less tame than fire, is, alas, unchained in that beautiful country these reflections would not allow me to rest."
11696,"The stream took a thousand turns, so that at no moment could its gleaming surface be seen for a greater distance than a furlong."
11697,"Of course, one can't be sure, but we can always take a chance."
11698,All my perceptions were purely sensual.
11699,"She began to count the long days, and months, and years which must elapse, before he would be restored to a private station, and unreservedly to her."
11700,"Ugly roots and malignant hanging nooses of Spanish moss beset them, and now and then a pile of dank stones or fragment of a rotting wall intensified by its hint of morbid habitation a depression which every malformed tree and every fungous islet combined to create."
11701,I inquired of the inhabitants concerning the fiend and gained accurate information.
11702,"That he really knew nothing of the hidden cult, save from what my uncle's relentless catechism had let fall, he soon made clear; and again I strove to think of some way in which he could possibly have received the weird impressions."
11703,"There was just a chance that the townsfolk would not think of that; since its brier choked desertion made it half impassable, and the unlikeliest of all avenues for a fugitive to choose."
11704,"She had been moved from the posture in which I had first beheld her, and now, as she lay, her head upon her arm and a handkerchief thrown across her face and neck, I might have supposed her asleep."
11705,"""The description of the digits,"" said I, as I made an end of reading, ""is in exact accordance with this drawing."
11706,"""By the by, Pratt, Kate has us completely."
11707,"He turned on hearing a noise, and perceiving me, shrieked loudly, and quitting the hut, ran across the fields with a speed of which his debilitated form hardly appeared capable."
11708,"As at the conclusion of the eighteenth century, the English unlocked their hospitable store, for the relief of those driven from their homes by political revolution; so now they were not backward in affording aid to the victims of a more wide spreading calamity."
11709,"On the same evening, he went alone to the house named to him."
11710,"I felt as if I were recreated and had about me all the freshness and life of a new being: I was, as it were, transported since his arrival from a narrow spot of earth into a universe boundless to the imagination and the understanding."
11711,In this house I chanced to find a volume of the works of Cornelius Agrippa.
11712,"""I've got a place that I don't believe three living Nordic men besides myself have ever seen."
11713,"And out into the limitless aether reeled that fabulous train, the noise of whose shouting was lost in the echoes of thunder."
11714,"oh, quite a hero perfect desperado no hearts, Mr. Tattle?"
11715,"I reached out my hand, and it fell heavily upon something damp and hard."
11716,"He was an uncouth man, but deeply imbued in the secrets of his science."
11717,"""Now, if, in place of the unknown characters, we leave blank spaces, or substitute dots, we read thus: the tree thr...h the, when the word 'through' makes itself evident at once."
11718,"I seem to have suffered a great shock perhaps from some utterly monstrous outgrowth of my cycles of unique, incredible experience."
11719,"Like them, he has a watch, but he carries his watch in his pocket."
11720,"But the bearded man said to me: ""Beware of those perilous seas wherein men say Cathuria lies."
11721,"Something more was in his heart, to which he dared not give words."
11722,You may conceive my astonishment on hearing such a question addressed to me from a man on the brink of destruction and to whom I should have supposed that my vessel would have been a resource which he would not have exchanged for the most precious wealth the earth can afford.
11723,"A few more thoughts were exchanged, and I knew that the luminous one and I were being recalled to bondage, though for my brother of light it would be the last time."
11724,"Two centuries ago, when talk of witch blood, Satan worship, and strange forest presences was not laughed at, it was the custom to give reasons for avoiding the locality."
11725,"""Once I desired to be a king."
11726,"I shall quit your vessel on the ice raft which brought me thither and shall seek the most northern extremity of the globe; I shall collect my funeral pile and consume to ashes this miserable frame, that its remains may afford no light to any curious and unhallowed wretch who would create such another as I have been."
11727,"One could not be sure that the sea and the ground were horizontal, hence the relative position of everything else seemed phantasmally variable."
11728,"Knowing that the Thing could surely overtake the Alert until steam was fully up, he resolved on a desperate chance; and, setting the engine for full speed, ran lightning like on deck and reversed the wheel."
11729,"I determined to depart, yet live to leave the world, yet continue to exist in short, to drop enigmas, I resolved, let what would ensue, to force a passage, if I could, to the moon."
11730,"Some unknown attraction was pulling his eyes in a seemingly irrelevant direction, for he could not help staring at a certain vacant spot on the floor."
11731,There were some foils upon a table some points also.
11732,"This wall is of one continuous rock, and has been formed by cutting perpendicularly the once rugged precipice of the stream's southern bank, but no trace of the labor has been suffered to remain."
11733,CHAPTER X It was six months after this miserable conclusion to his long nursed hopes that I first saw him.
11734,Countrymen near Jermyn House had perhaps heard wilder tales handed down from ancestors who had listened to Sir Wade around the tables of the Knight's Head.
11735,"The battle was sanguinary, the loss of the Turks apparently irreparable; the Greeks, in losing one man, forgot the nameless crowd strewed upon the bloody field, and they ceased to value themselves on a victory, which cost them Raymond."
11736,"He then asked me, suddenly, if I had observed any thing peculiar at the scene of the atrocity."
11737,"But though I have had listeners sometimes, they have ever been few, and I know that welcome shall await me only in Aira, the city of marble and beryl where my father once ruled as King."
11738,"He transacted public business with distaste, and hastened from it to the solitude which was at once his bane and relief."
11739,"It was not a pleasant sleep, and for a second I was not sorry for the echoing shriek which clove through the barriers of dream and flung me to a sharp and startled awakeness in which every actual object before my eyes stood out with more than natural clearness and reality."
11740,"who loved him, as he did her; notwithstanding that disappointment quelled her passion, and ambition held strong combat with his."
11741,"Messrs. Ricci and Silva were experienced in the art of making unwilling persons voluble, and the screams of a weak and exceptionally venerable man can be easily muffled."
11742,"It was distinctly proved that no apathy, such as was imagined, existed; that the old lady was exceedingly feeble, and so agitated as to be unable to attend to any duty, that St. Eustache, so far from receiving the news coolly, was distracted with grief, and bore himself so frantically, that M. Beauvais prevailed upon a friend and relative to take charge of him, and prevent his attending the examination at the disinterment."
11743,"The excitement which had hitherto sustained me was lost; as a building, whose props are loosened, and whose foundations rock, totters and falls, so when enthusiasm and hope deserted me, did my strength fail."
11744,"He returned unharmed, married in , and became a father on that memorable night of September , , when a great gale drove the waters of the bay over half the town, and floated a tall sloop well up Westminster Street so that its masts almost tapped the Harris windows in symbolic affirmation that the new boy, Welcome, was a seaman's son."
11745,"The chanted ritual was not the secret that was never spoken aloud, only whispered."
11746,"The man did not speak, and bore no trace of expression on his small, regular features."
11747,"It was foreign talk, he thought, but he said the bad thing about it was the kind of voice that sometimes spoke."
11748,We can only account for its absence by supposing the murderer to have neglected the precaution of supplying himself with it before pushing off.
11749,"""Der Teufel"" groaned they, ""Dirteen Dirteen Mein Gott, it is Dirteen o'clock"" Why attempt to describe the terrible scene which ensued?"
11750,"I bade the Minister good morning, and took my departure at once, leaving a gold snuff box upon the table."
11751,"Every thought that was devoted to it was an extreme anguish, and every word that I spoke in allusion to it caused my lips to quiver, and my heart to palpitate."
11752,I hardly know whether I shall have the power to detail it; yet the tale which I have recorded would be incomplete without this final and wonderful catastrophe.
11753,"My life was spent among tangible realities, hers was a dream."
11754,"I say ""amused"" and scarcely know how to explain myself."
11755,"The winding up is inessential to the operations of the Automaton, and is performed with the design of exciting in the spectators the false idea of mechanism. ."
11756,"""Captain Pratt, you must come and spend the evening with us to morrow you and Smitherton you can tell us all about your voyage, and we'll have a game of whist and "" PRATT."
11757,"West was experimenting madly to find something which would start man's vital motions anew after they had been stopped by the thing we call death, but had encountered the most ghastly obstacles."
11758,The old lady and her daughter seemed on good terms very affectionate towards each other.
11759,"Our couches were side by side, and we knew in a few seconds that we were in St. Mary's Hospital."
11760,"Two o'clock struck, after which none were admitted; those who had been disappointed went sullenly or sorrowfully away, while I entered the audience chamber."
11761,"Once adopting the more charitable interpretation, we shall find no difficulty in comprehending the rose in the key hole; the 'Marie' upon the slate; the 'elbowing the male relatives out of the way;' the 'aversion to permitting them to see the body;' the caution given to Madame B , that she must hold no conversation with the gendarme until his return Beauvais'; and, lastly, his apparent determination 'that nobody should have anything to do with the proceedings except himself.'"
11762,"He loved me with a guilty passion, and stung by remorse and despair he killed himself."
11763,"""You may easily believe,"" said he, ""how great was the difficulty to persuade my father that all necessary knowledge was not comprised in the noble art of book keeping; and, indeed, I believe I left him incredulous to the last, for his constant answer to my unwearied entreaties was the same as that of the Dutch schoolmaster in The Vicar of Wakefield: 'I have ten thousand florins a year without Greek, I eat heartily without Greek.'"
11764,Could any thing but unmixed joy flow from such a union?
11765,"Should there be nothing wrong here, however, we will dismiss St. Eustache from our investigations."
11766,"I buried him the next midnight in one of our neglected gardens, and mumbled over his body one of the devilish rituals he had loved in life."
11767,"I am not like one of these; they influenced millions: but if I can influence but a hundred, but ten, but one solitary individual, so as in any way to lead him from ill to good, that will be a joy to repay me for all my sufferings, though they were a million times multiplied; and that hope will support me to bear them."
11768,"Alexander was a king; Solomon, the wisest of men, was a king; Napoleon was a king; Caesar died in his attempt to become one, and Cromwell, the puritan and king killer, aspired to regality."
11769,"At the same time my forehead seemed bathed in a clammy vapor, and the peculiar smell of decayed fungus arose to my nostrils."
11770,"Another moment brought to view a frightened group of more than a dozen men, running, shouting, and even whimpering hysterically."
11771,"B., for some years past, has been subject to neuralgia, which has often threatened to terminate fatally; but this can be regarded only as the mediate cause of his decease."
11772,Are these green tombs theirs?
11773,"She writes under her maiden name of Eleanor Wing."""
11774,All Fum Fudge was in an uproar.
11775,"The change in the quality of the daylight increased, and the crowd gazed about the horizon in wonder."
11776,"I could offer no explanation of them, but their truth in part relieved the burden of my mysterious woe."
11777,"It appeared to me not greatly dissimilar to the extreme quiescence of him, who, having slumbered long and profoundly, lying motionless and fully prostrate in a midsummer noon, begins to steal slowly back into consciousness, through the mere sufficiency of his sleep, and without being awakened by external disturbances."
11778,"What wonder then, in time of siege, want, extreme heat, and drought, that it should make unaccustomed ravages?"
11779,Of my own thoughts it is folly to speak.
11780,The error is obvious.
11781,"A frightful selfishness hurried me on, while my heart was poisoned with remorse."
11782,"With faltering accents Clara promised, while she still clung to her father in a transport of sorrow."
11783,"But, come, this splenetic fit is already passed; resume your functions; your partizans will hail you; your enemies be silenced; our love, honour, and duty will again be manifested towards you."
11784,"I'm not a three year old kid, and I'd seen much like this before."
11785,"I could never, while with him, think of his bounty as a remedy to my poverty; and I even put aside hastily his offers of supplies, assuring him of a falsehood, that I needed them not."
11786,"Klenze and I usually slept at different times; and it was during my sleep, about A.M., July , that the general mutiny broke loose."
11787,"Now write ""'Aussi tendre que Zaire' as tender as Zaire French."
11788,On the night of which I speak we had a splendid new specimen a man at once physically powerful and of such high mentality that a sensitive nervous system was assured.
11789,"Felix was too delicate to accept this offer, yet he looked forward to the probability of the event as to the consummation of his happiness."
11790,"Then I heard a clock from some remote landing below strike the hour of two, and I knew I was awake."
11791,"West's last quarters were in a venerable house of much elegance, overlooking one of the oldest burying grounds in Boston."
11792,"When I was about five years old, while making an excursion beyond the frontiers of Italy, they passed a week on the shores of the Lake of Como."
11793,"My uncle breathed heavily, his deep inhalations and exhalations accompanied by the rain outside, and punctuated by another nerve racking sound of distant dripping water within for the house was repulsively damp even in dry weather, and in this storm positively swamp like."
11794,"Kepler admitted that his three laws were guessed at these three laws of all laws which led the great Inglitch mathematician to his principle, the basis of all physical principle to go behind which we must enter the Kingdom of Metaphysics."
11795,He pointed out to me the shifting colours of the landscape and the appearances of the sky.
11796,And thus it was that although the spirit of friendship soothed me for a while it could not restore me.
11797,The head was very slightly elevated.
11798,"It was almost a cliff, closed to all vehicles, consisting in several places of flights of steps, and ending at the top in a lofty ivied wall."
11799,"I had not despaired, nor had I yet conceived the idea of returning if set free."
11800,"In my donations I was careful not to overshoot the mark, for I did not wish Zadok's vinous garrulousness to pass into a stupor."
11801,I would go to the fountain head.
11802,"Each animal if you will take the pains to observe, is following, very quietly, in the wake of its master."
11803,"His greatest disciples were one Neuclid, and one Cant."
11804,"I wish to prepare you for the woeful news, but I know it is impossible; even now your eye skims over the page to seek the words which are to convey to you the horrible tidings."
11805,We dug very steadily for two hours.
11806,"This hour, melancholy yet sweet, has always seemed to me the time when we are most naturally led to commune with higher powers; our mortal sternness departs, and gentle complacency invests the soul."
11807,"They say that I spoke with a distinct enunciation, but with marked emphasis and passionate hurry, as if in dread of interruption before concluding the brief, but pregnant sentences that consigned me to the hangman and to hell."
11808,"Then the floor gave way at last, and I slid gaspingly down into the nighted chamber below, choking with cobwebs and half swooning with terror."
11809,"She was attired in deep mourning, and excited in my bosom a feeling of mingled respect, interest, and admiration."
11810,The slightest pressure upon a long lever that extended far into the tomb would cause the iron portal to fly back.
11811,"He here paused abruptly, bent his head to his bosom, and seemed to listen to a sound which I could not hear."
11812,"It was a solid structure, with massy door, sooner than open which in the absence of the ""Dominic,"" we would all have willingly perished by the peine forte et dure."
11813,"My courage and perseverance were invigorated by these scoffing words; I resolved not to fail in my purpose, and calling on heaven to support me, I continued with unabated fervour to traverse immense deserts, until the ocean appeared at a distance and formed the utmost boundary of the horizon."
11814,"Several times he seemed near daylight, only to be set back by some unforeseen obstacle."
11815,"In the meantime, he continued his talk."
11816,Extremely rapid decrease in the diameter of the earth.
11817,We saw each other again and again.
11818,"Anyhow, he manages to turn out results that differ from the pretender's mince pie dreams in just about the same way that the life painter's results differ from the concoctions of a correspondence school cartoonist."
11819,I was not long in hesitation.
11820,"The corpse, I repeat, stirred, and now more vigorously than before."
11821,This expedition has been the favourite dream of my early years.
11822,I am not even certain how I am communicating this message.
11823,"The trees were dark in color, and mournful in form and attitude, wreathing themselves into sad, solemn, and spectral shapes that conveyed ideas of mortal sorrow and untimely death."
11824,"There were shocking dooms that might be called out of the hills on the Sabbaths; dooms which ought not to exist within the territories of the Roman People; and to permit orgies of the kind known to prevail at Sabbaths would be but little in consonance with the customs of those whose forefathers, A. Postumius being consul, had executed so many Roman citizens for the practice of the Bacchanalia a matter kept ever in memory by the Senatus Consultum de Bacchanalibus, graven upon bronze and set open to every eye."
11825,"The heat rapidly increased, and once again I looked up, shuddering as with a fit of the ague."
11826,"""He is better dead, for he was unfit to bear the active intellect of cosmic entity."
11827,"I told him, too, of the fears of others in that region, and how they were whispered down for generations; and how no mythical madness came to the boy who in entered an abandoned house to examine certain traces suspected to be there."
11828,"The vault in which we placed it and which had been so long unopened that our torches, half smothered in its oppressive atmosphere, gave us little opportunity for investigation was small, damp, and entirely without means of admission for light; lying, at great depth, immediately beneath that portion of the building in which was my own sleeping apartment."
11829,"How it had ever come into the possession of a common sailor, neither he nor I could imagine."
11830,"Why should that lady blush To this demand there is no answer except that, having left, in the eager haste and terror of a mother's heart, the privacy of her own boudoir, she has neglected to enthral her tiny feet in their slippers, and utterly forgotten to throw over her Venetian shoulders that drapery which is their due."
11831,"Well, this could not last."
11832,"All the phrases did not fit, as we say in the Anglo Saxon."
11833,"It is formed of a light wicker, and is wonderfully strong, for so frail looking a machine."
11834,"She had to do this, while in deep woe she sighed for loneliness, and would gladly have exchanged her crowded rooms for dark forest depths, or a drear, night enshadowed heath."
11835,"""Felix trembled violently as he said this."
11836,I remembered that Idris had been kept in ignorance of my proceedings.
11837,It is impossible utterly impossible to form any adequate idea of the horror of my situation.
11838,"If two medallions are put into the drawer together, an answer is returned only to the lower one."
11839,Yet we were not all to die.
11840,"""It may appear strange, but now, when we were in the very jaws of the gulf, I felt more composed than when we were only approaching it."
11841,"The vast cities of America, the fertile plains of Hindostan, the crowded abodes of the Chinese, are menaced with utter ruin."
11842,"And so it was with the waking nightmare of Tempest Mountain; the discovery that two monsters had haunted the spot gave me ultimately a mad craving to plunge into the very earth of the accursed region, and with bare hands dig out the death that leered from every inch of the poisonous soil."
11843,"Be Wilson what he might, this, at least, was but the veriest of affectation, or of folly."
11844,"The oldest man in the borough can remember not the slightest difference in the appearance of any portion of it; and, indeed, the very suggestion of such a possibility is considered an insult."
11845,"At high noon of the night in which she departed, beckoning me, peremptorily, to her side, she bade me repeat certain verses composed by herself not many days before."
11846,"In displaying anxiety for the breath of which he was at present so willing to get rid, might I not lay myself open to the exactions of his avarice?"
11847,"They did not cease, however, importuning me with questions as to what I intended to do with all this apparatus, and expressed much dissatisfaction at the terrible labor I made them undergo."
11848,"For a while he sought friends, but soon grew weary of the crudeness of their emotions, and the sameness and earthiness of their visions."
11849,"But Clara was jealous of their services; she would be sole handmaid of Idris, sole minister to the wants of her little cousins; nothing gave her so much pleasure as our employing her in this way; she went beyond our desires, earnest, diligent, and unwearied, Abra was ready ere we called her name, And though we called another, Abra came."
11850,Of all these things we know nothing.
11851,In the bottom of the valley itself for it must be borne in mind that the vegetation hitherto mentioned grew only on the cliffs or hillsides were to be seen three insulated trees.
11852,"He had begun his speech with vehemence; he ended with unassuming gentleness, making his appeal with the same humility, as if he had asked to be the first in wealth, honour, and power among Englishmen, and not, as was the truth, to be the foremost in the ranks of loathsome toils and inevitable death."
11853,"He declared, notwithstanding her harshness, he even called it coldness, that he loved her."
11854,"Remember the friends around you, who centre all their hopes in you."
11855,"The usual sputtering began, turned to a whine, and terminated in a drone so soft as to suggest a return to silence."
11856,"I say to my surprise, for, although he had always yielded his person freely to my experiments, he had never before given me any tokens of sympathy with what I did."
11857,In a book was published at Dresden by M. I. F. Freyhere in which another endeavor was made to unravel the mystery.
11858,No arm is without hair.
11859,"I darted towards the spot from which the sound proceeded, but the devil eluded my grasp."
11860,"Zann's screaming viol now outdid itself, emitting sounds I had never thought a viol could emit."
11861,"But alas the real sleepers were fewer, by many millions, than those who slumbered not at all; and there was a feeble struggling; and there was a general sad unrest; and from out the depths of the countless pits there came a melancholy rustling from the garments of the buried."
11862,"You have often observed the profound self cognizance evinced by the sleep waker the extensive knowledge he displays upon all points relating to the mesmeric condition itself; and from this self cognizance may be deduced hints for the proper conduct of a catechism."""
11863,This would look erudite and and and frank.
11864,"West, who had his hand on the pulse of the left wrist, suddenly nodded significantly; and almost simultaneously a mist appeared on the mirror inclined above the body's mouth."
11865,"W. was a little indisposed, and would decline coming on board until to morrow, at the hour of sailing."""
11866,"Unsheathing my rapier, I began to grope with it about the recess: but the thought of an instant reassured me."
11867,"As the day advanced the focus of his unseeing eyes changed position, and by noon he had conquered the impulse to stare at vacancy."
11868,"Several hours passed, and I remained near my window gazing on the sea; it was almost motionless, for the winds were hushed, and all nature reposed under the eye of the quiet moon."
11869,"And as I ran along the shore, crushing sleeping flowers with heedless feet and maddened ever by the fear of unknown things and the lure of the dead faces, I saw that the garden had no end under that moon; for where by day the walls were, there stretched now only new vistas of trees and paths, flowers and shrubs, stone idols and pagodas, and bendings of the yellow litten stream past grassy banks and under grotesque bridges of marble."
11870,"They would appear to be walking, with heels up and head down, in the manner of flies on a ceiling."
11871,Some were destroyed; the major part escaped by quick and well ordered movements; and danger made them careful.
11872,"The passionate and almost reverential attachment with which all regarded her became, while I shared it, my pride and my delight."
11873,What I saw about me none else saw; and I grew doubly silent and aloof lest I be thought mad.
11874,"Whaddya want, feller booze, coke, or some other sorta dope?"
11875,"He loved enterprise, hardship, and even danger for its own sake."
11876,"His mind was tired, but I am always a German, and was quick to notice two things; that the U was standing the deep sea pressure splendidly, and that the peculiar dolphins were still about us, even at a depth where the existence of high organisms is considered impossible by most naturalists."
11877,"The sense of falling had ceased; and the motion of the vessel seemed much as it had been before, while in the belt of foam, with the exception that she now lay more along."
11878,At each end of its axis this screw is supported by pillars of hollow brass tube descending from the hoop.
11879,"Now, lest I should be supposed more of a madman than I actually am, I will detail, as well as I am able, the considerations which led me to believe that an achievement of this nature, although without doubt difficult, and incontestably full of danger, was not absolutely, to a bold spirit, beyond the confines of the possible."
11880,"Mostly we held to the theory that we were jointly going mad from our life of unnatural excitements, but sometimes it pleased us more to dramatise ourselves as the victims of some creeping and appalling doom."
11881,"My confusion of mind prevented me from observing that I began my tour with the wall to the left, and ended it with the wall to the right."
11882,"An irrepressible tremor gradually pervaded my frame; and, at length, there sat upon my very heart an incubus of utterly causeless alarm."
11883,"His long hair and flowing beard were of a terrible and intense black hue, and of incredible profusion."
11884,"Or did it know that I was the leader, and save me for a fate worse than that of my companions?"
11885,Anguish and despair had penetrated into the core of my heart; I bore a hell within me which nothing could extinguish.
11886,"Madame Lalande, I had been told, was a Parisian had lately arrived from Paris might she not suddenly return?"
11887,"Mercy was a plain, raw boned woman of great strength; but her health visibly declined from the time of her advent."
11888,"He began at last to shew signs of angry impatience, and Perdita became aware that the system she had adopted could not continue; she must explain herself to him; she could not summon courage to speak she wrote thus: ""Read this letter with patience, I entreat you."
11889,"Von Kempelen, however, is by no means 'a misanthrope,' in appearance, at least, whatever he may be in fact."
11890,The only alteration in the MS.
11891,"Death is the goal that I would attain, but, alas I do not even see the end of the course."
11892,His sole relief was obtained in revelry of the most general and boisterous sort; so that few assemblies of the young and the gay were unknown to us.
11893,"The inhabitants of Berkshire and Bucks had been long aware that the plague was in London, in Liverpool, Bristol, Manchester, York, in short, in all the more populous towns of England."
11894,"It imparts an impression of terrible antiquity, as though it were the remotest rather than the immediate ancestor of Greek art."
11895,Do not for ever look sorrow and never speak it; utter one word of bitter complaint and I will reprove it with gentle exhortation and pour on you the balm of compassion.
11896,"Barring the door after us against the fury of the wind and rain, we put in place the crude window shutter which our frequent searches had taught us where to find."
11897,"If she had been nurtured by those who had regarded her with affection, she might have been different; but unloved and neglected, she repaid want of kindness with distrust and silence."
11898,"In person, he hardly appeared of this world; his slight frame was overinformed by the soul that dwelt within; he was all mind; ""Man but a rush against"" his breast, and it would have conquered his strength; but the might of his smile would have tamed an hungry lion, or caused a legion of armed men to lay their weapons at his feet."
11899,"He merely pointed to a book of prodigious size which lay open on the table, while the beldame thrust a huge grey quill into Gilman's right hand."
11900,"It is impossible to say how first the idea entered my brain; but once conceived, it haunted me day and night."
11901,"In about fifteen minutes, another and less reasonable bill is handed him by one who soon makes it evident that the first collector was a diddler, and the original collection a diddle."
11902,"Sir, if that man was not a frog, I can only observe that it is a pity he was not."
11903,This was the key of my design.
11904,Has she not bestowed on him every gift in prodigality?
11905,The whole of this mechanism that is to say all the mechanism essential to the machine is most probably contained within the little cupboard of about six inches in breadth partitioned off at the right the spectators' right of the main compartment.
11906,I am a part of this scene; each and all its properties are a part of me.
11907,The report of the pistol brought a crowd into the room.
11908,Any being from any part of three dimensional space could probably survive in the fourth dimension; and its survival of the second stage would depend upon what alien part of three dimensional space it might select for its re entry.
11909,"But not wantin' to bother, they'd lay low when anybody visited the island."
11910,"Gorges and ravines of problematical depth intersect the way, and the crude wooden bridges always seem of dubious safety."
11911,"At the end of a week he placed before me the following extracts: ""About three years and a half ago, a disturbance very similar to the present, was caused by the disappearance of this same Marie Rogêt, from the parfumerie of Monsieur Le Blanc, in the Palais Royal."
11912,"""There are, properly,"" he writes, ""but two styles of landscape gardening, the natural and the artificial."
11913,"A few words, in explanation, will here be necessary for such of our readers as are not conversant with the details of aerostation."
11914,"The extreme, almost nocturnal darkness of the sky caused us to stumble sadly, but guided by the frequent flashes of lightning and by our minute knowledge of the hamlet we soon reached the least porous cabin of the lot; an heterogeneous combination of logs and boards whose still existing door and single tiny window both faced Maple Hill."
11915,Never saw the old man.
11916,"You might as well say, you have a strong Suspicion that Milton wrote Paradise Lost"" I thereafter saw Johnson very frequently, most often at Meetings of THE LITERARY CLUB, which was founded the next Year by the Doctor, together with Mr. Burke, the parliamentary Orator, Mr. Beauclerk, a Gentleman of Fashion, Mr. Langton, a pious Man and Captain of Militia, Sir J. Reynolds, the widely known Painter, Dr. Goldsmith, the prose and poetick Writer, Dr. Nugent, father in law to Mr. Burke, Sir John Hawkins, Mr. Anthony Chamier, and my self."
11917,"Our empty habitations remained, but the dwellers were gathered to the shades of the tomb."
11918,"And then I scrutinized, with a minute scrutiny, the forms, and the methods, and the leading traits of his impertinent supervision."
11919,"But other ingredients mingled with these, and prevented him from becoming the calculating, determined character, which alone forms a successful hero."
11920,"Nor could he talk of these matters at all save with the Terrible Old Man, who afterward mumbled queer things in his long white beard; vowing that the man who came down from that crag was not wholly the man who went up, and that somewhere under that grey peaked roof, or amidst inconceivable reaches of that sinister white mist, there lingered still the lost spirit of him who was Thomas Olney."
11921,They looked at one another and were unable to reply.
11922,Some of the faces seemed to hold expressions that brought up incredibly remote recollections; others were utterly alien.
11923,I wedded; nor dreaded the curse I had invoked; and its bitterness was not visited upon me.
11924,"There was a simple, natural earnestness about her that interested me in her fate, especially when she assured me that her husband was the best of men, had been so, till want of business during these unhappy times had thrown him into bad company."
11925,"Just before dawn Arcturus winks ruddily from above the cemetery on the low hillock, and Coma Berenices shimmers weirdly afar off in the mysterious east; but still the Pole Star leers down from the same place in the black vault, winking hideously like an insane watching eye which strives to convey some strange message, yet recalls nothing save that it once had a message to convey."
11926,"When I considered all these particulars, I doubted not for a moment that heat had been the agent in bringing to light, upon the parchment, the skull which I saw designed upon it."
11927,"To me Alos denied a warrior's part, for I was feeble and given to strange faintings when subjected to stress and hardships."
11928,"It was small relief to him that our discipline should gain us success in such a conflict; while plague still hovered to equalize the conqueror and the conquered, it was not victory that he desired, but bloodless peace."
11929,Only after two years did I connect this fear with anything in particular; but then I began to see that he must be looking at a special spot on the celestial vault whose position at different times corresponded to the direction of his glance a spot roughly marked by the constellation Corona Borealis.
11930,"Ever since the fatal night, the end of my labours, and the beginning of my misfortunes, I had conceived a violent antipathy even to the name of natural philosophy."
11931,"Perdita shook her head; ""If it could be so,"" she replied, ""I were much in the wrong to disdain your offers."
11932,"The pile of tools soon reached, and a hammer and chisel selected, Birch returned over the coffins to the door."
11933,"It is our distance from them and our imperfect means of communication that makes them appear to move; in truth they always remain stationary, a glorious centre, giving us a fine lesson of modesty if we would thus receive it."""
11934,Yog Sothoth is the gate.
11935,"Then he would try to straighten up, and a certain fire would creep into the sunken eyes."
11936,"As yet the mind alone had suffered could I for ever put off the time, when the delicate frame and shrinking nerves of my child of prosperity, the nursling of rank and wealth, who was my companion, should be invaded by famine, hardship, and disease?"
11937,"My father felt that his fall was near; but so far from profiting by this last calm before the storm to save himself, he sought to forget anticipated evil by making still greater sacrifices to the deity of pleasure, deceitful and cruel arbiter of his destiny."
11938,"Our quest for novel scenes and piquant conditions was feverish and insatiate St. John was always the leader, and he it was who led the way at last to that mocking, that accursed spot which brought us our hideous and inevitable doom."
11939,"But, once upon a time, a certain rich miser conceived the design of spunging upon this Abernethy for a medical opinion."
11940,"For there, full in the rifted roadway, lay bleached and tranquil in bland, saintly, and consular pomp the dome like skull of Ibid There is nothing more absurd, as I view it, than that conventional association of the homely and the wholesome which seems to pervade the psychology of the multitude."
11941,"I observed that his name was carded upon three state rooms; and, upon again referring to the list of passengers, I found that he had engaged passage for himself, wife, and two sisters his own."
11942,"I was, just at that epoch, in one of those moody frames of mind which make a man abnormally inquisitive about trifles: and I confess, with shame, that I busied myself in a variety of ill bred and preposterous conjectures about this matter of the supernumerary state room."
11943,"One part was open, and by that I had crept in; but now I covered every crevice by which I might be perceived with stones and wood, yet in such a manner that I might move them on occasion to pass out; all the light I enjoyed came through the sty, and that was sufficient for me."
11944,"Its trees were all gone now, and its rose gardens were displaced by the backs of cheap, ugly new buildings on parallel streets."
11945,"I alone fed him, and he attended me wherever I went about the house."
11946,"Nevertheless the change in the menace from vague premonition to immediate reality was a profound shock, and fell upon me with the force of a genuine blow."
11947,How often have I wept over that letter which untill I was sixteen was the only relick I had to remind me of my parents.
11948,When others were there he often spoke to me and his eyes perpetually followed my slightest motion.
11949,"His screams had reached the house, and I had hastened to the terrible scene in time to hear a whir of wings and see a vague black cloudy thing silhouetted against the rising moon."
11950,With such precautions the courtiers might bid defiance to contagion.
11951,The artificial style has as many varieties as there are different tastes to gratify.
11952,My own sensations can scarcely be recorded.
11953,"Each of these knobs was the hub of a system of five long, flat, triangularly tapering arms arranged around it like the arms of a starfish nearly horizontal, but curving slightly away from the central barrel."
11954,"This plainly shows the bottom to consist of craggy rocks, among which they are whirled to and fro."
11955,"It soon developed that I had only a choice between different evils, but after a time I came upon a house in West Fourteenth Street which disgusted me much less than the others I had sampled."
11956,"We painted and read together; or I listened, as if in a dream, to the wild improvisations of his speaking guitar."
11957,"I well remember, among others, the treatise of the noble Italian, Coelius Secundus Curio, ""De Amplitudine Beati Regni Dei;"" St. Austin's great work, the ""City of God;"" and Tertullian's ""De Carne Christi,"" in which the paradoxical sentence ""Mortuus est Dei filius; credible est quia ineptum est: et sepultus resurrexit; certum est quia impossibile est,"" occupied my undivided time, for many weeks of laborious and fruitless investigation."
11958,"Zadok now grew shriller, and seemed to be trying to whip up his courage with louder speech."
11959,"A diddler may thus be regarded as a banker in petto a ""financial operation,"" as a diddle at Brobdignag."
11960,"I revelled in recollections of her purity, of her wisdom, of her lofty, her ethereal nature, of her passionate, her idolatrous love."
11961,"At last the crisis came: the night when parliament, which had so long delayed its choice, must decide: as the hour of twelve passed, and the new day began, it was by virtue of the constitution dissolved, its power extinct."
11962,My father wished her not to go but said that he left it to her own judgment and feelings to decide.
11963,"We had passed through walls of piled bones, with casks and puncheons intermingling, into the inmost recesses of the catacombs."
11964,"His name was John Raymond Legrasse, and he was by profession an Inspector of Police."
11965,"When the Automaton is about to move a piece, a distinct motion is observable just beneath the left shoulder, and which motion agitates in a slight degree, the drapery covering the front of the left shoulder."
11966,"""He is dead"" said Adrian, as the corpse fell from his arms on the ground, and he bowed his head in sorrow and awe."
11967,"Having thus become Friends, we convers'd on many Matters."
11968,"With all the energy of desperate grief I told him how I had fallen at once from bliss to misery; how that for me there was no joy, no hope; that death however bitter would be the welcome seal to all my pangs; death the skeleton was to be beautiful as love."
11969,"I saw clearly the doom which had been prepared for me, and congratulated myself upon the timely accident by which I had escaped."
11970,"The physician came and prescribed medicines, and the old woman prepared them for me; but utter carelessness was visible in the first, and the expression of brutality was strongly marked in the visage of the second."
11971,The ultimate life is the full design.
11972,"Upon examining it, many excoriations were perceived, no doubt occasioned by the violence with which it had been thrust up and disengaged."
11973,I shall not be suspected of being averse to the Greek cause; I know and feel its necessity; it is beyond every other a good cause.
11974,And is it therefore that he has never thus suffered?
11975,"The atmosphere, for example, impels the electric principle, while the electric principle permeates the atmosphere."
11976,"My father seemed to notice it, too, for he began looking at me curiously and almost affrightedly."
11977,"Ise heerd bout dem goole bugs fore dis."" ""But how do you know he dreams about gold?"" ""How I know?"
11978,"Parachutes and rail roads man traps and spring guns Our steam boats are upon every sea, and the Nassau balloon packet is about to run regular trips fare either way only twenty pounds sterling between London and Timbuctoo."
11979,"Many attempts had been made to set aside this singular bequest; their ex post facto character rendered them abortive; but the attention of a jealous government was aroused, and a legislative act finally obtained, forbidding all similar accumulations."
11980,Increase of knowledge only discovered to me more clearly what a wretched outcast I was.
11981,"This done, a few more of the loops were unfastened from the rim, a farther portion of the cloth introduced, and the disengaged loops then connected with their proper buttons."
11982,"She had now partially recovered, however, and took the vessel herself, while I sank upon an ottoman near me, with my eyes fastened upon her person."
11983,"Burials without embalming were made in rapid succession, and even the Christchurch Cemetery receiving tomb was crammed with coffins of the unembalmed dead."
11984,"Only greater maturity could help him understand the chronic mental limitations of the ""professor doctor"" type the product of generations of pathetic Puritanism; kindly, conscientious, and sometimes gentle and amiable, yet always narrow, intolerant, custom ridden, and lacking in perspective."
11985,For the gentle and noble features were those of his own mother.
11986,For a moment only did I lose recollection; I fell senseless on the ground.
11987,I looked on these; I turned my gaze to my own mean dress.
11988,"""Ebenezer cud read a leetle o' this 'tis Latin but I can't."
11989,"We followed them to an abandoned barn, where the remnants of a crowd of frightened foreigners were watching a silent black form on the floor."
11990,"In these writings the people were urged to tear down the laws and virtues that our fathers had exalted; to stamp out the soul of the old America the soul that was bequeathed through a thousand and a half years of Anglo Saxon freedom, justice, and moderation."
11991,"It was but just now that I passed directly before the eyes of the mate it was no long while ago that I ventured into the captain's own private cabin, and took thence the materials with which I write, and have written."
11992,"Nor did her angry dislike prevent Adrian from imaging my father, as he had said, the type of all that was gallant, amiable, and fascinating in man."
11993,But my efforts were fruitless.
11994,I at once offered to purchase it of the landlord; but this person made no claim to it knew nothing of it had never seen it before.
11995,"""The Amontillado"" ejaculated my friend, not yet recovered from his astonishment."
11996,"My head grovelled in the ashes of an extinguished fire, while my feet reposed upon the wreck of a small table, overthrown, and amid the fragments of a miscellaneous dessert, intermingled with a newspaper, some broken glass and shattered bottles, and an empty jug of the Schiedam Kirschenwasser."
11997,"In a dream Kuranes saw the city in the valley, and the sea coast beyond, and the snowy peak overlooking the sea, and the gaily painted galleys that sail out of the harbour toward the distant regions where the sea meets the sky."
11998,"He had abandoned me, and in the bitterness of my heart I cursed him."
11999,"You, my creator, abhor me; what hope can I gather from your fellow creatures, who owe me nothing?"
12000,"Under the idea of initiating me in the scene of English politics and society, of which I was soon to become a part, he narrated a number of anecdotes, and sketched many characters; his discourse, rich and varied, flowed on, pervading all my senses with pleasure."
12001,"Among these reliefs were fabulous monsters of abhorrent grotesqueness and malignity half ichthyic and half batrachian in suggestion which one could not dissociate from a certain haunting and uncomfortable sense of pseudo memory, as if they called up some image from deep cells and tissues whose retentive functions are wholly primal and awesomely ancestral."
12002,"""Who can he be?"" said Mrs. Bas Bleu."
12003,"Their sides sloped from the water's edge at an angle of some forty five degrees, and they were clothed from base to summit not a perceptible point escaping in a drapery of the most gorgeous flower blossoms; scarcely a green leaf being visible among the sea of odorous and fluctuating color."
12004,"I have spoken to you, Oinos, as to a child of the fair Earth which lately perished of impulses upon the atmosphere of the Earth."
12005,"But more marvellous still were the palaces and the temples, and the gardens made by Zokkar the olden king."
12006,"The crouching image with its cuttlefish head, dragon body, scaly wings, and hieroglyphed pedestal, was preserved in the Museum at Hyde Park; and I studied it long and well, finding it a thing of balefully exquisite workmanship, and with the same utter mystery, terrible antiquity, and unearthly strangeness of material which I had noted in Legrasse's smaller specimen."
12007,"""Whose name is Davy Jones"" ejaculated Tarpaulin, helping the lady by his side to a skull of liqueur, and pouring out a second for himself."
12008,"Trident bearing Neptune was there, and sportive tritons and fantastic nereids, and upon dolphins' backs was balanced a vast crenulate shell wherein rode the grey and awful form of primal Nodens, Lord of the Great Abyss."
12009,What would be the result of a total extraction of the nitrogen?
12010,"The most wonderful the most ingenious and let me add, Mr. Mr. Thompson, I believe, is your name let me add, I say, the most useful the most truly useful mechanical contrivances, are daily springing up like mushrooms, if I may so express myself, or, more figuratively, like ah grasshoppers like grasshoppers, Mr. Thompson about us and ah ah ah around us"" Thompson, to be sure, is not my name; but it is needless to say that I left General Smith with a heightened interest in the man, with an exalted opinion of his conversational powers, and a deep sense of the valuable privileges we enjoy in living in this age of mechanical invention."
12011,"My view downward was also considerably impeded by the dense atmosphere in the vicinity of the surface being loaded with clouds, between whose masses I could only now and then obtain a glimpse of the earth itself."
12012,"That shocking little horror was reserved for certain lighter, sharper dreams which assailed him just before he dropped into the fullest depths of sleep."
12013,"After a full two hours Dr. Davis left, urging Birch to insist at all times that his wounds were caused entirely by loose nails and splintering wood."
12014,But keep in mind that I didn't drop Pickman for anything like this.
12015,I can just remember the titles of some of the works.
12016,How at least shall we distinguish its shadows from those of the tomb?
12017,"This being so, they could not have refastened the sashes from the inside, as they were found fastened; the consideration which put a stop, through its obviousness, to the scrutiny of the police in this quarter."
12018,"Therein, he has dreamed of flames and suffocation of mountains upon mountains of Pelion upon Ossa."
12019,"Had the routine of our life at this place been known to the world, we should have been regarded as madmen although, perhaps, as madmen of a harmless nature."
12020,"He talked of Geneva, which I should soon visit, of Elizabeth and Ernest; but these words only drew deep groans from me."
12021,"We are born; we choose neither our parents, nor our station; we are educated by others, or by the world's circumstance, and this cultivation, mingling with our innate disposition, is the soil in which our desires, passions, and motives grow."""
12022,"Each would have fled had he not feared the scorn of the others, and it was only half heartedly that they searched vainly, as it proved for some portable souvenir to bear away."
12023,"I had been long in the habit of mesmerizing the person in question, Mr. Vankirk, and the usual acute susceptibility and exaltation of the mesmeric perception had supervened."
12024,I pondered upon all this frivolity until my teeth were on edge.
12025,"Though I well realised the futility of imaginative and metaphysical arguments against the complacency of an orthodox sun dweller, something in the scene of this afternoon colloquy moved me to more than usual contentiousness."
12026,"It is only left for us to prove that these apparent 'impossibilities' are, in reality, not such."
12027,"Returning to the submarine, I turned off the lights and sat thinking in the dark."
12028,Eleonora was the name of my cousin.
12029,"Still, I was absolutely fascinated, and could not withdraw it, even for an instant."
12030,"I hailed the darkness that shut Ireland from my sight, and my pulse beat with a feverish joy when I reflected that I should soon see Geneva."
12031,But a home of love awaits you in your native England.
12032,"It follows, that the desire to be well must be excited simultaneously with any principle which shall be merely a modification of combativeness, but in the case of that something which I term perverseness, the desire to be well is not only not aroused, but a strongly antagonistical sentiment exists."
12033,"The singular being who had so disastrously exposed me, had been muffled, I remembered, in a cloak; and none had been worn at all by any of the members of our party with the exception of myself."
12034,"For my own part, I soon found a dislike to it arising within me."
12035,"I am glad that I have seen the changes of his day; to behold the sun, fountain of light, and the gentle pilgrim moon; to have seen the fire bearing flowers of the sky, and the flowery stars of earth; to have witnessed the sowing and the harvest."
12036,The Dutchman maintains it to have been that of a Frenchman; but we find it stated that 'not understanding French this witness was examined through an interpreter.'
12037,That among them we should look for the agency of the threatened fiery destruction had been for many years considered an inadmissible idea.
12038,"He could not recall what he had dreamed in the sky perched hut of that still nameless hermit, or say how he had crept down that crag untraversed by other feet."
12039,"So saying, he stepped aside and wrote down a list of several books treating of natural philosophy which he desired me to procure, and dismissed me after mentioning that in the beginning of the following week he intended to commence a course of lectures upon natural philosophy in its general relations, and that M. Waldman, a fellow professor, would lecture upon chemistry the alternate days that he omitted."
12040,"""I'm going to prepare you as bluntly as I can."
12041,"This I felt was the clue, and again I looked at the floor before the fireplace where the mould and nitre had taken strange forms."
12042,"It was an opera night, and the bills presented a very rare attraction, so that the house was excessively crowded."
12043,"Raymond, being somewhat recovered, prepared to re assume his command in the army."
12044,"It is therefore evident that, ascend as high as we may, we cannot, literally speaking, arrive at a limit beyond which no atmosphere is to be found."
12045,"""But there are not wanting other grounds for the suspicion that the articles were placed in the thicket with the view of diverting attention from the real scene of the outrage."
12046,"The labour of winding among the little paths of the mountain and fixing my feet firmly as I advanced perplexed me, occupied as I was by the emotions which the occurrences of the day had produced."
12047,"Peasants had told them they were near, and Iranon knew that this was not his native city of Aira."
12048,"In truth, it was a dream like and spirit soothing place, that venerable old town."
12049,"On the contrary, his wish for enlightenment was prompted by purely professional considerations."
12050,"These, like the over largely lettered signs and placards of the street, escape observation by dint of being excessively obvious; and here the physical oversight is precisely analogous with the moral inapprehension by which the intellect suffers to pass unnoticed those considerations which are too obtrusively and too palpably self evident."
12051,"In the rash pursuit of this object, he rushes into mere assumption at the outset."
12052,"Rabble, indeed why these are the noble and free citizens of Epidaphne Beasts, did you say? take care that you are not overheard."
12053,"We even avoid looking at it very steadily."""
12054,He at last fell down in convulsions.
12055,"Indeed, it was only by accident that after interminable writhings I jarred my forgotten electric lamp alight, so that it shone eerily along the burrow of caked loam that stretched and curved ahead."
12056,"Sleep fled from my eyes; I wandered like an evil spirit, for I had committed deeds of mischief beyond description horrible, and more, much more I persuaded myself was yet behind."
12057,"They wondered, too, why the writers made so much of the fact that Old Whateley always paid for his cattle in gold pieces of extremely ancient date."
12058,"Your affectionate brother, Robert Walton Letter July th, To Mrs. Saville, England My dear Sister, I write a few lines in haste to say that I am safe and well advanced on my voyage."
12059,Then we shall find Elinor and what I have lost.
12060,"His good wife waxes stouter and his children older and prosier and more useful, and he never fails to smile correctly with pride when the occasion calls for it."
12061,"Sargent threw out a mail bag and a roll of newspapers, and entered the hotel; while the passengers the same men whom I had seen arriving in Newburyport that morning shambled to the sidewalk and exchanged some faint guttural words with a loafer in a language I could have sworn was not English."
12062,What motive prompted the hybrid crew to order back the Emma as they sailed about with their hideous idol?
12063,"Not only had he a more than ordinary dislike to quackery, but he was morbidly afraid of appearing empirical; so that, however fully he might have been convinced that he was on the right track in the matter now in question, he would never have spoken out, until he had every thing ready for the most practical demonstration."
12064,"I said to myself, ""This is no dream, for by what means can I prove the greater reality of that other life in the house of stone and brick south of the sinister swamp and the cemetery on the low hillock, where the Pole Star peers into my north window each night?"""
12065,"There is no knowing what one eats, thought I to myself, at the tables of these people of the province."
12066,"His information was at first received with silence; a confused murmur succeeded; and, when the chairman declared Lord Raymond duly chosen, it amounted to a shout of applause and victory."
12067,"There was a bursting as of an exploding bladder, a slushy nastiness as of a cloven sunfish, a stench as of a thousand opened graves, and a sound that the chronicler would not put on paper."
12068,"As ill luck would have it, I alit upon my feet within the vehicle."
12069,My abhorrence of this fiend cannot be conceived.
12070,"I soon, however, grew ashamed of my weakness, and proceeded."
12071,"""Why, papa, Captain Pratt went round Cape Horn, and Captain Smitherton doubled the Cape of Good Hope."""
12072,"Alien it indeed was to all art and literature which sane and balanced readers know, but we recognised it as the thing hinted of in the forbidden Necronomicon of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred; the ghastly soul symbol of the corpse eating cult of inaccessible Leng, in Central Asia."
12073,"Bankers, merchants, and manufacturers, whose trade depended on exports and interchange of wealth, became bankrupt."
12074,"The north wing, I now saw, was a bed chamber, its door opened into the parlor."
12075,"My mother, pennyless and burthened with two children, waited week after week, and month after month, in sickening expectation of a reply, which never came."
12076,"The silk on the parasol was strong, but the threads of it were run together within."
12077,We sunk into silence: a silence that drank in the doleful accounts and prognostications of our guest.
12078,"It was in truth a diary, as all had thought; and it was couched in a style clearly shewing the mixed occult erudition and general illiteracy of the strange being who wrote it."
12079,"Stay here to night, and I will send Jup down for it at sunrise."
12080,"He has also a peculiar shuffle with his feet, calculated to induce suspicion of collusion with the machine in minds which are more cunning than sagacious."
12081,"The least illness caused throes of terror; she was miserable if she were at all absent from them; her treasure of happiness she had garnered in their fragile being, and kept forever on the watch, lest the insidious thief should as before steal these valued gems."
12082,"I awoke half stupefied; I felt a heavy oppression on me, but knew not wherefore; I entered, as it were, the council chamber of my brain, and questioned the various ministers of thought therein assembled; too soon I remembered all; too soon my limbs quivered beneath the tormenting power; soon, too soon, I knew myself a slave Suddenly, unannounced, Lord Raymond entered my apartment."
12083,"Wearied at heart with anxieties which had their origin in the general turmoil and decay, I succumbed to the fierce fever."
12084,"Her father grew worse; her time was more entirely occupied in attending him; her means of subsistence decreased; and in the tenth month her father died in her arms, leaving her an orphan and a beggar."
12085,Shall I not then hate them who abhor me?
12086,"Close by my home there lies a singular wooded hollow, in whose twilight deeps I spent most of my time; reading, thinking, and dreaming."
12087,"You seek for knowledge and wisdom, as I once did; and I ardently hope that the gratification of your wishes may not be a serpent to sting you, as mine has been."
12088,"But he was old, and shook his head as he replied: ""O stranger, I have indeed heard the name of Aira, and the other names thou hast spoken, but they come to me from afar down the waste of long years."
12089,Plainly I had no time to lose.
12090,"Down certainly, relentlessly down It vibrated within three inches of my bosom I struggled violently, furiously, to free my left arm."
12091,"I had taken but few turns in this manner, when a light step on an adjoining staircase arrested my attention."
12092,"Massa Will cotch him fuss, but had for to let him go gin mighty quick, I tell you den was de time he must ha got de bite."
12093,"There were still a few hackney coaches accustomed to stand about the streets, more truly from habit than for use."
12094,"And, now, let me beg your notice to the highly artificial arrangement of the articles."
12095,Felix visited the grate at night and made known to the prisoner his intentions in his favour.
12096,"Thereafter I was more cautious with my incantations, for I had no wish to be cut off from my body and from the earth in unknown abysses whence I could never return."
12097,"You have given me new wants and now your trifle with me as if my heart were as whole as yours, as if I were not in truth a shorn lamb thrust out on the bleak hill side, tortured by every blast."
12098,"He perceived the cloud gathering, and tried to dissipate it; but the strength of my feelings would not permit me to pass thus lightly over this sacred subject; so I said emphatically, ""Permit me to remark, that I am devotedly attached to the Earl of Windsor; he is my best friend and benefactor."
12099,"He stopped as he saw firm denial on the librarian's face, and his own goatish features grew crafty."
12100,"It had at first been his hope to find a reagent which would restore vitality before the actual advent of death, and only repeated failures on animals had shewn him that the natural and artificial life motions were incompatible."
12101,"Wordsworth has compared a beloved female to two fair objects in nature; but his lines always appeared to me rather a contrast than a similitude: A violet by a mossy stone Half hidden from the eye, Fair as a star when only one Is shining in the sky."
12102,"Most of these were young men of wealth, of high connection, of great family pride, and all alive with an exaggerated sense of honor."
12103,"That evening I regretted that I had not taken the ivory image surreptitiously from poor Klenze's pocket as he left, for the memory of it fascinated me."
12104,In its impalpable gaseous character we clearly perceived the consummation of Fate.
12105,"Far away to the northward I perceived a thin, white, and exceedingly brilliant line, or streak, on the edge of the horizon, and I had no hesitation in supposing it to be the southern disk of the ices of the Polar Sea."
12106,Raymond gave her his ring to ensure the respect of the menials.
12107,"The business, however, has grown ungenteel, and that of a politician don't pay."
12108,"A mutiny has been the result; and, as is usual upon such occasions, all human efforts will be of no avail in quelling the mob."
12109,He drew a glowing picture of its present situation.
12110,You know what he did.
12111,The magician of M. Maillardet is also worthy of notice.
12112,"Wise men have interpreted dreams, and the gods have laughed."
12113,"The women, too, it appears, were oddly deformed by a natural protuberance of the region just below the small of the back although, most unaccountably, this deformity was looked upon altogether in the light of a beauty."
12114,"Confused memories mixed themselves with his mathematics, and he believed his subconscious mind held the angles which he needed to guide him back to the normal world alone and unaided for the first time."
12115,"The title of Mr. B.'s admirable poem is the 'Oil of Bob' a somewhat unfortunate name, by the by, as some contemptible vagabond connected with the penny press has already disgusted the town with a great deal of drivel upon the same topic."
12116,I stood ready to receive and reply to his reproaches.
12117,"I had recovered enough in a week to send to Albany for a gang of men to blow up the Martense mansion and the entire top of Tempest Mountain with dynamite, stop up all the discoverable mound burrows, and destroy certain overnourished trees whose very existence seemed an insult to sanity."
12118,With her left she pointed downward to a curiously fashioned vase.
12119,"If the drawer is shut without a medallion being put into it, the magician rises, consults his book, shakes his head, and resumes his seat."
12120,"A wind stronger than the night wind rushed by, and I knew that what had befallen St. John must soon befall me."
12121,"In the second place, they terrified because of their very greatness."
12122,"As the ape approached the casement with its mutilated burden, the sailor shrank aghast to the rod, and, rather gliding than clambering down it, hurried at once home dreading the consequences of the butchery, and gladly abandoning, in his terror, all solicitude about the fate of the Ourang Outang."
12123,"And as I saw therein the lotos faces vanish, I longed for nets that I might capture them and learn from them the secrets which the moon had brought upon the night."
12124,The first object of my curiosity was a book of medium size lying upon the table and presenting such an antediluvian aspect that I marvelled at beholding it outside a museum or library.
12125,"We were all equal now; but near at hand was an equality still more levelling, a state where beauty and strength, and wisdom, would be as vain as riches and birth."
12126,"The death of William, the execution of Justine, the murder of Clerval, and lastly of my wife; even at that moment I knew not that my only remaining friends were safe from the malignity of the fiend; my father even now might be writhing under his grasp, and Ernest might be dead at his feet."
12127,"The night mare became torture; with a strong effort I threw off sleep, and recalled reason to her wonted functions."
12128,"My pets are not pretty, for they come out of places where aesthetic standards are very different."
12129,"or, if even that, could I withstand its pressure?"
12130,"CHAPTER VI My chamber was in a retired part of the house, and looked upon the garden so that no sound of the other inhabitants could reach it; and here in perfect solitude I wept for several hours."
12131,I dreaded the first glance at objects around me.
12132,"Nor was I a stranger in the streets of Olathoë, which lies on the plateau of Sarkis, betwixt the peaks Noton and Kadiphonek."
12133,"Retrograding, they found no difficulty, from a given effect, under given conditions, in determining the value of the original impulse."
12134,"Next the corner of Babson Street I saw to my alarm that one of the houses was still inhabited, as attested by curtains at the window; but there were no lights within, and I passed it without disaster."
12135,"The author of the pamphlet alluded to by Brewster, mentions it, but acknowledges his inability to account for it."
12136,No one had thought of even attempting to save any thing more.
12137,"This was April th, and with the dusk would come the hellish Sabbat time which all the foreigners and the superstitious old folk feared."
12138,"The starry sky, the sea, and every sight afforded by these wonderful regions seem still to have the power of elevating his soul from earth."
12139,"They had, so they said, as much as they could do to read about the revolutions, and keep up with the march of intellect and the spirit of the age."
12140,"I was not surprised, however, to perceive that he had long made up his mind on a point which had occasioned so much discussion to his friends."
12141,To diddle is his destiny.
12142,"She hardly looked up ""You can do me no good,"" she replied; ""I must go to the hospital; if I do not die before I get there."""
12143,"I did not desire sympathy and aid in ambition or wisdom, but sweet and mutual affection; smiles to cheer me and gentle words of comfort."
12144,In London there is a man who screams when the church bells ring.
12145,But for a long time I exerted myself in vain.
12146,"Upon second thoughts, you had better kick him, or cane him, or something of that kind."""
12147,"That evening, after a day of hurried cabling and arranging, I bade my host adieu and took a train for San Francisco."
12148,"As Windsor lay, to a great degree, in the line of march from the west, I removed my family to London, assigning the Tower for their sojourn, and joining Adrian, acted as his Lieutenant in the coming struggle."
12149,Ryland groaned; cold drops stood on his brow.
12150,The cause of the conference was a horror that brooded on the hills.
12151,How could any backwoods dullard have gained so much as an idea of those glittering realms of supernal radiance and space about which Slater ranted in his furious delirium?
12152,I must be more brief for night draws on apace and all my hours in this house are counted.
12153,"A weird bunch of cuttings, all told; and I can at this date scarcely envisage the callous rationalism with which I set them aside."
12154,"For this was it a glorious, for this was it an honourable undertaking."
12155,"Two of the less irrelevantly moving things a rather large congeries of iridescent, prolately spheroidal bubbles and a very much smaller polyhedron of unknown colours and rapidly shifting surface angles seemed to take notice of him and follow him about or float ahead as he changed position among the titan prisms, labyrinths, cube and plane clusters, and quasi buildings; and all the while the vague shrieking and roaring waxed louder and louder, as if approaching some monstrous climax of utterly unendurable intensity."
12156,At the same moment the disgusting form of Brown Jenkin scrambled up over the brink of the triangular black gulf on his left.
12157,"I was alone, yet bound to the unknown depths by those magic strands whose insulated surface lay green beneath the struggling beams of that waning crescent moon."
12158,To all appearance it had been temporarily and very lately abandoned.
12159,Then as I heard another crash I opened my eyes and beheld myself upon the platform of that lighthouse from whence I had sailed so many aeons ago.
12160,The arms were bent over on the chest and were rigid.
12161,"I did not care, however, to contest the point with him."
12162,"Down unlit and illimitable corridors of eldritch phantasy sweeps the black, shapeless Nemesis that drives me to self annihilation."
12163,"The inhabitants of the island, and of the fort, thronged out, of course, to see the balloon; but it was with the greatest difficulty that any one could be made to credit the actual voyage the crossing of the Atlantic."
12164,"The tenor of my actions will prove that I had rather die, than be a mark for scorn behold the proud Evadne in her tatters look on the beggar princess There is aspic venom in the thought promise me that my secret shall not be violated by you."""
12165,"In fact, as regards the more important knowledge, I do believe that she is invariably superficial."
12166,"After the revolution of ages Birnam hill was again covered with a young forest, while more aged pines, planted at the very commencement of the nineteenth century by the then Duke of Athol, gave solemnity and beauty to the scene."
12167,"They had torn down the great central chimney, too, and fitted the rusty range with a flimsy outside tin stovepipe."
12168,"I foamed I raved I swore I swung the chair upon which I had been sitting, and grated it upon the boards, but the noise arose over all and continually increased."
12169,"But let me, it is my last entreaty, let me in the praises of his countrymen and the prosperity of England, find the choice of my youth justified."""
12170,The last hour for action is at hand.
12171,"Shall man be the enemy of man, while plague, the foe to all, even now is above us, triumphing in our butchery, more cruel than her own?"""
12172,I paused some time to reflect on all he had related and the various arguments which he had employed.
12173,"I didn't keep track of the cross streets, and can't tell you yet which it was we turned up, but I know it wasn't Greenough Lane."
12174,I was now conscious of a change.
12175,"""We are possibly not giving this matter a fair trial,"" he said."
12176,"I threw myself into the carriage that was to convey me away, hardly knowing whither I was going, and careless of what was passing around."
12177,It was the design of Angelo Ricci and Joe Czanek and Manuel Silva to call on the Terrible Old Man.
12178,"""Name it"" I exclaimed with an energy that had nearly drawn upon us the observation of the company, and restrained by their presence alone from throwing myself impetuously at her feet."
12179,"P. S. We are consumed with anxiety to probe the mystery which envelops the evident pseudonym ""Snob."""
12180,I regarded her with an utter astonishment not unmingled with dread and yet I found it impossible to account for such feelings.
12181,"He had nervously telephoned his wife he would not be home, and when she brought him a breakfast from the house he could scarcely dispose of a mouthful."
12182,"Let us proceed in a body to the borough, and restore the ancient order of things in Vondervotteimittiss by ejecting that little fellow from the steeple."
12183,"To change the scene for her, and even for ourselves, all unhinged by the cloud that had come over us, I persuaded my two remaining companions that it were better that we should absent ourselves for a time from Windsor."
12184,Out burst a deluge of liquor so fierce so impetuous so overwhelming that the room was flooded from wall to wall the loaded table was overturned the tressels were thrown upon their backs the tub of punch into the fire place and the ladies into hysterics.
12185,"Once more in shadow, I resumed my former dog trot past the leaning and decrepit houses that stared blankly into the night."
12186,"I took a seat far behind him, but on the same side of the bus, since I wished to watch the shore during the journey."
12187,But in the city things wore a different face.
12188,"A despatch from California describes a theosophist colony as donning white robes en masse for some ""glorious fulfilment"" which never arrives, whilst items from India speak guardedly of serious native unrest toward the end of March."
12189,"I had determined, if you were going southwards, still to trust myself to the mercy of the seas rather than abandon my purpose."
12190,"His teeth, however, were like pearl, and his large full eyes were deliciously white."
12191,The neighborhood is secluded particularly so.
12192,"""By this time the first fury of the tempest had spent itself, or perhaps we did not feel it so much, as we scudded before it, but at all events the seas, which at first had been kept down by the wind, and lay flat and frothing, now got up into absolute mountains."
12193,"He would pause now and then to renew those nervous glances over his shoulder or out toward the reef, and despite the wild absurdity of his tale, I could not help beginning to share his vague apprehensiveness."
12194,"His serious mien recalled, by some association, the half forgotten Evadne to my mind, and I seized this opportunity to make enquiries from him concerning her strange lot."
12195,"I ran on at my utmost speed until I found myself I knew not how, close to Westminster Abbey, and was attracted by the deep and swelling tone of the organ."
12196,Do you think Nature composed his surpassing machine for no purpose?
12197,"One night the castle on the hill was thrown into the wildest confusion by the vanishment of young Godfrey, son to Henri the Comte."
12198,"Meanwhile poor Rhoby Harris, in her madness, gave voice to dreams and imaginings of the most hideous sort."
12199,But these cares of Clerval were made of no avail when I visited the professors.
12200,This arm was gradually widened until it attained its present breadth a mile.
12201,"Again, quite a respectable diddle is this."
12202,"Dun't know haow his poor wife kin feel she come from Ipswich, an' they nigh lynched Barnabas when he courted her fifty odd year' ago."
12203,"Its bottom, which could be distinctly seen, consisted altogether, of pebbles brilliantly white."
12204,"For example, he has been known to open, first of all, the drawer but he never opens the main compartment without first closing the back door of cupboard No. he never opens the main compartment without first pulling out the drawer he never shuts the drawer without first shutting the main compartment he never opens the back door of cupboard No. while the main compartment is open and the game of chess is never commenced until the whole machine is closed."
12205,"Our general routine was this: Pompey, having rolled himself well in the mud, sat upon end at the shop door, until he observed a dandy approaching in bright boots."
12206,"He appeared extremely uneasy, looking anxiously around him, fluttering his wings, and making a loud cooing noise, but could not be persuaded to trust himself from off the car."
12207,"The most important portion in fact, the soul of the whole business, is yet to be attended to I allude to the filling up."
12208,I reapproached the wall.
12209,"When, therefore, Mr. Preston reached me that which he had picked up upon the floor, and near the folding doors of the apartment, it was with an astonishment nearly bordering upon terror, that I perceived my own already hanging on my arm, where I had no doubt unwittingly placed it, and that the one presented me was but its exact counterpart in every, in even the minutest possible particular."
12210,"But Woodville's words had magic in them, when beginning with the sweetest pity, he would raise me by degrees out of myself and my sorrows until I wondered at my own selfishness: but he left me and despair returned; the work of consolation was ever to begin anew."
12211,"ye yelping dog ye called 'em, and they've come for me Moccasined feet dead men Gad sink ye, ye red devils, but I poisoned no rum o' yours han't I kept your pox rotted magic safe?"
12212,Of the bruises upon the body of Madame L'Espanaye I do not speak.
12213,"The Great War, through which both of us served as surgeons, had intensified this side of West."
12214,"What of it there remained I will not attempt to define, or even to describe; yet all was not lost."
12215,"He received the paper very peevishly, and was about to crumple it, apparently to throw it in the fire, when a casual glance at the design seemed suddenly to rivet his attention."
12216,In about two hours the boat rested in a paved plaza close to the rocky wall of the valley.
12217,"Niches here and there contained skulls of all shapes, and heads preserved in various stages of dissolution."
12218,"But I forget myself, my tale is yet untold."
12219,"There were bones badly crushed and splintered, but clearly recognisable as human whose manifestly modern date conflicted puzzlingly with the remote period at which their only possible lurking place, the low, slant floored loft overhead, had supposedly been sealed from all human access."
12220,"""Fool"" said the second."
12221,"Oh What a night it was And I passed on with quick steps among the high, dank grass amid the rain and tempest."
12222,"Then through the high mists he heard the voice of unseen Barzai shouting wildly in delight: ""I have heard the gods I have heard earth's gods singing in revelry on Hatheg Kla The voices of earth's gods are known to Barzai the Prophet The mists are thin and the moon is bright, and I shall see the gods dancing wildly on Hatheg Kla that they loved in youth The wisdom of Barzai hath made him greater than earth's gods, and against his will their spells and barriers are as naught; Barzai will behold the gods, the proud gods, the secret gods, the gods of earth who spurn the sight of men"" Atal could not hear the voices Barzai heard, but he was now close to the bulging cliff and scanning it for foot holds."
12223,"No father had watched my infant days, no mother had blessed me with smiles and caresses; or if they had, all my past life was now a blot, a blind vacancy in which I distinguished nothing."
12224,"""I am about to leave the country for some years, and I cannot conscientiously retain this large amount in my possession."
12225,"This text, as given, ran something like this: ""In his house at R'lyeh dead Cthulhu waits dreaming."""
12226,"And, furthermore, it is exceedingly improbable that any villains who had committed such a murder as is here supposed, would have thrown the body in without weight to sink it, when such a precaution could have so easily been taken."""
12227,The print which merely falls in with ordinary opinion however well founded this opinion may be earns for itself no credit with the mob.
12228,"The admiralty will institute an inquiry on the whole matter beginning tomorrow, at which every effort will be made to induce Johansen to speak more freely than he has done hitherto."
12229,Methought I was immersed in a cataleptic trance of more than usual duration and profundity.
12230,"But life was yet strong within me; I recovered: nor did it a little aid my returning health that my recollections were at first vague, and that I was too weak to feel any violent emotion."
12231,She knew that Raymond had conversed with her; had he instigated this request?
12232,"Come, I see that you are already persuaded, and will second me when I propose him to night in parliament."""
12233,"She listened eagerly to him, yet tantalized herself by giving to his words a meaning foreign to their true interpretation, and adverse to her hopes."
12234,It was a life of toil; for rain and cold were more frequent than sunshine; but it was my pride to contemn the elements.
12235,"She was there, lifeless and inanimate, thrown across the bed, her head hanging down and her pale and distorted features half covered by her hair."
12236,"But although St. Stephen's did not echo with the voice which filled each heart, the newspapers teemed with nothing else; and in private companies the conversation however remotely begun, soon verged towards this central point, while voices were lowered and chairs drawn closer."
12237,"I found, at the start, that the land had been part of the long strip of home lot granted originally to John Throckmorton; one of many similar strips beginning at the Town Street beside the river and extending up over the hill to a line roughly corresponding with the modern Hope Street."
12238,"I go; but remember, I shall be with you on your wedding night."""
12239,A watch's minute hand moves more quickly than did mine.
12240,He demanded the place of deputy as his right.
12241,The fury of a demon instantly possessed me.
12242,"But he remembered it again when he walked down a white path toward a red roofed pagoda, and would have questioned the people of that land about it, had he not found that there were no people there, but only birds and bees and butterflies."
12243,"Such would be my liberty except that in my Elizabeth I possessed a treasure, alas, balanced by those horrors of remorse and guilt which would pursue me until death."
12244,"I could not do otherwise, even if I had wished; for if we are said to have two souls, he was my better soul, to which the other was a perpetual slave."
12245,"""No more no more no more,"" Such language holds the solemn sea To the sands upon the shore, Shall bloom the thunder blasted tree, Or the stricken eagle soar Now all my hours are trances; And all my nightly dreams Are where the dark eye glances, And where thy footstep gleams, In what ethereal dances, By what Italian streams."
12246,Out of the South it would glide very smoothly and silently over the sea.
12247,These latter theorize.
12248,"But her rights with regard to him, and her cherished independence, should not be injured by the idea of interest, or the intervention of the complicated feelings attendant on pecuniary obligation, and the relative situations of the benefactor, and benefited."
12249,"The fact then of irregularity, when regularity might have been so easily attained, goes to prove that regularity is unimportant to the action of the Automaton in other words, that the Automaton is not a pure machine. ."
12250,"Dr. Armitage slept, but was partly delirious the next day."
12251,"We entered London in the evening, and went to our several abodes near Hyde Park."
12252,ever hear tell of a shoggoth? . . .
12253,"And now they were scattered, and shared only the rituals of mysteries that none living could understand."
12254,"The care of me while a baby, and afterwards untill I had reached my eighth year devolved on a servant of my mother's, who had accompanied us in our retirement for that purpose."
12255,"""But do not you see, Lionel, the drift of our noble friend; a drift, perhaps, unknown to himself, but apparent to me."
12256,"""It is a strange link in my fate that without having seen you I should passionately love you."
12257,"I returned to Windsor by the Long Walk, and passing through the town towards the Castle, I found it in a state of agitation and disturbance."
12258,There is no immateriality it is a mere word.
12259,We went together to the House in the evening.
12260,"During the now brief interval of darkness a meteoric stone again passed in my vicinity, and the frequency of these phenomena began to occasion me much apprehension."
12261,"My country, my beloved country who but a native can tell the delight I took in again beholding thy streams, thy mountains, and, more than all, thy lovely lake Yet, as I drew nearer home, grief and fear again overcame me."
12262,He emptied it at a breath.
12263,"Her countenance was all expression; her eyes were not dark, but impenetrably deep; you seemed to discover space after space in their intellectual glance, and to feel that the soul which was their soul, comprehended an universe of thought in its ken."
12264,"The ancient lightning scarred trees seemed unnaturally large and twisted, and the other vegetation unnaturally thick and feverish, while curious mounds and hummocks in the weedy, fulgurite pitted earth reminded me of snakes and dead men's skulls swelled to gigantic proportions."
12265,"At length, in reading some French Memoirs, I found an account of a nearly fatal illness that occurred to Madame Pilau, through the agency of a candle accidentally poisoned."
12266,"Thus far I have gone, tracing a secure way over the pathless seas, the very stars themselves being witnesses and testimonies of my triumph."
12267,Then the stirring of my uncle in his sleep attracted my notice.
12268,"My liking for him did not grow, though the attic room and the weird music seemed to hold an odd fascination for me."
12269,"Rice, beside him, took from a valise a metal sprayer of the sort used in combating insects; whilst Morgan uncased the big game rifle on which he relied despite his colleague's warnings that no material weapon would be of help."
12270,"Then, after a short interval, the form in the corner stirred; and may pitying heaven keep from my sight and sound another thing like that which took place before me."
12271,"I had now neglected my promise for some time, and I feared the effects of the daemon's disappointment."
12272,"Evadne's feminine prudence perceived how useless any assertion of his resolves would be, till added years gave weight to his power."
12273,"For I admit the opinion of Copernicus, who maintains that it never ceases to revolve from the east to the west, not upon the poles of the Equinoctial, commonly called the poles of the world, but upon those of the Zodiac, a question of which I propose to speak more at length here after, when I shall have leisure to refresh my memory in regard to the astrology which I learned at Salamanca when young, and have since forgotten."""
12274,"Around the middle of July just a year after the Innsmouth experience I spent a week with my late mother's family in Cleveland; checking some of my new genealogical data with the various notes, traditions, and bits of heirloom material in existence there, and seeing what kind of connected chart I could construct."
12275,"Through the gray of the early morning among the trellised shadows of the forest at noonday and in the silence of my library at night she had flitted by my eyes, and I had seen her not as the living and breathing Berenice, but as the Berenice of a dream; not as a being of the earth, earthy, but as the abstraction of such a being; not as a thing to admire, but to analyze; not as an object of love, but as the theme of the most abstruse although desultory speculation."
12276,"""I see,"" said he, perceiving that I could not immediately reconcile myself to the bienseance of so singular a welcome ""I see you are astonished at my apartment at my statues my pictures my originality of conception in architecture and upholstery absolutely drunk, eh, with my magnificence?"
12277,"He is a soldier, a general."
12278,"In fact, we made it a matter of desperate speculation the risk of life standing instead of labor, and courage answering for capital."
12279,"Its evidence the evidence of the sentience was to be seen, he said, and I here started as he spoke, in the gradual yet certain condensation of an atmosphere of their own about the waters and the walls."
12280,"She tried to rouse herself, but her eyes every now and then filled with tears, and she looked wistfully on Raymond and her girl, as if fearful that some evil would betide them."
12281,But the memory of past sorrow is it not present joy?
12282,His plan referred altogether to Sensation.
12283,"But such miseries could never intrude upon the domestic circle left to me, while, secluded in our beloved forest, we passed our lives in tranquillity."
12284,"Do you also join with my enemies to crush me, to condemn me as a murderer?"""
12285,"And do you not see also, that such recherchés nooks for concealment are adapted only for ordinary occasions, and would be adopted only by ordinary intellects; for, in all cases of concealment, a disposal of the article concealed a disposal of it in this recherché manner, is, in the very first instance, presumable and presumed; and thus its discovery depends, not at all upon the acumen, but altogether upon the mere care, patience, and determination of the seekers; and where the case is of importance or, what amounts to the same thing in the policial eyes, when the reward is of magnitude, the qualities in question have never been known to fail."
12286,"Walking, riding, the common occupations of life, overcame him: he felt no pain, but seemed to tremble for ever on the verge of annihilation."
12287,"This motion invariably precedes, by about two seconds, the movement of the arm itself and the arm never, in any instance, moves without this preparatory motion in the shoulder."
12288,"It was in devoting his gigantic wealth to the practical embodiment of a vision such as this in the free exercise in the open air, which resulted from personal direction of his plans in the continuous and unceasing object which these plans afford in the contempt of ambition which it enabled him more to feel than to affect and, lastly, it was in the companionship and sympathy of a devoted wife, that Ellison thought to find, and found, an exemption from the ordinary cares of Humanity, with a far greater amount of positive happiness than ever glowed in the rapt day dreams of De Stael."
12289,"She spoke quickly, as if to convince herself; she turned her eyes from the trees and forest paths she loved; she hid her face in my bosom, and we yes, my masculine firmness dissolved we wept together consolatory tears, and then calm nay, almost cheerful, we returned to the castle."
12290,"Seven years ago, in her youthful prime, she had become attached to him; he had served her country against the Turks; he had in her own land acquired that military glory peculiarly dear to the Greeks, since they were still obliged inch by inch to fight for their security."
12291,"On comparing the intervals between the successive arrivals of Encke's comet at its perihelion, after giving credit, in the most exact manner, for all the disturbances due to the attractions of the planets, it appears that the periods are gradually diminishing; that is to say, the major axis of the comet's ellipse is growing shorter, in a slow but perfectly regular decrease."
12292,Forth from the well they hurried in fresh troops.
12293,"There was evidently something behind all this; yet, when he appeared about to speak of that which was nearest his heart, he would abruptly turn away, and with a sigh endeavour to deliver the painful idea to the winds."
12294,"He died gloriously while inhaling gas levique flatu corrupitur, like the fama pudicitae in Hieronymus."
12295,"In a few seconds he had uncovered a mass of human bones, forming two complete skeletons, intermingled with several buttons of metal, and what appeared to be the dust of decayed woollen."
12296,"I appear to have strength, power, victory; standing as a dome supporting column stands; and I am a reed I have ambition, and that attains its aim; my nightly dreams are realized, my waking hopes fulfilled; a kingdom awaits my acceptance, my enemies are overthrown."
12297,"Having done this, he issued from his state room, fully dressed, and proceeded to call Mrs. W. from hers."
12298,"""As for these murders, let us enter into some examinations for ourselves, before we make up an opinion respecting them."
12299,"""Proceed"" he at length said hoarsely to Bedloe."
12300,"I talked with the elderly Archer Harris, then owner of the house, many times before his death in ; and obtained from him and his still surviving maiden sister Alice an authentic corroboration of all the family data my uncle had collected."
12301,"I heard of the difference of sexes, and the birth and growth of children, how the father doted on the smiles of the infant, and the lively sallies of the older child, how all the life and cares of the mother were wrapped up in the precious charge, how the mind of youth expanded and gained knowledge, of brother, sister, and all the various relationships which bind one human being to another in mutual bonds."
12302,"Flight was universal, and in the clamour and panic several fell in a swoon and were dragged away by their madly fleeing companions."
12303,Perdita reproached us bitterly.
12304,"Do not endeavour to deprive me of my companion, the out cast's friend."
12305,"Braced up by Elwood's companionship, Gilman attended classes that day."
12306,"At about midnight Raymond and I took leave of my sister, to return to town."
12307,Great pains had been taken in the scenery to give the semblance of reality to the impossible.
12308,"Mankind was not absolutely alone among the conscious things of earth, for shapes came out of the dark to visit the faithful few."
12309,Mr. Ellison became neither musician nor poet; although no man lived more profoundly enamored both of Music and the Muse.
12310,Had heard it said among the neighbors that Madame L. told fortunes did not believe it.
12311,"As he spoke, I felt subject to him; and all my boasted pride and strength were subdued by the honeyed accents of this blue eyed boy."
12312,"For Pluto, however, I still retained sufficient regard to restrain me from maltreating him, as I made no scruple of maltreating the rabbits, the monkey, or even the dog, when by accident, or through affection, they came in my way."
12313,"One of these was the pulpit of the ""classical"" usher, one of the ""English and mathematical."""
12314,"""Thus, may it please your Excellencies, I have detailed some, though by no means all, the considerations which led me to form the project of a lunar voyage."
12315,"""You are a drunken vagabond,"" said I, ""and I shall ring the bell and order my footman to kick you into the street."""
12316,"The silver cord was not for ever loosed, nor the golden bowl irreparably broken."
12317,"He made, however, no attempt to descend as I had expected, but struggled with great vehemence to get back, uttering at the same time very shrill and piercing cries."
12318,"""Next summer,"" said Adrian as we parted on our return to Windsor, ""will decide the fate of the human race."
12319,And yet you are still unhappy and still avoid our society.
12320,I have saved you so far by telling you to keep still saved you to see more sights and to listen to me.
12321,Such was the maniac language of her enthusiasm.
12322,"He did not turn back a second time, but stepped up with decision, and rapped at the door of our chamber."
12323,"""You jest,"" he exclaimed, recoiling a few paces."
12324,"I called again ""Fortunato"" No answer still."
12325,"When I say that Dr. West was avid to serve in battle, I do not mean to imply that he was either naturally warlike or anxious for the safety of civilisation."
12326,"I have said, that the defects of her character awoke and acquired vigour from her unnatural position."
12327,"I turned up my nose, and I spoke of myself."
12328,Perdita was sensible of the failing of the tide that fed her life.
12329,"I observed, too, that very few of the dresses were well made or, at least, that very few of them fitted the wearers."
12330,Everything was made to yield to her wishes and her convenience.
12331,"After feeling the pulse and applying a mirror to the lips, he requested me to speak to the sleep waker again."
12332,"The paragraph from the 'Courier and Enquirer,' which is now going the rounds of the press, and which purports to claim the invention for a Mr. Kissam, of Brunswick, Maine, appears to me, I confess, a little apocryphal, for several reasons; although there is nothing either impossible or very improbable in the statement made."
12333,"About noon, as nearly as we could guess, our attention was again arrested by the appearance of the sun."
12334,"Joy and exultation, were mine, to possess, and to save her."
12335,"How many limbs have you passed?"" ""One, two, tree, four, fibe I done pass fibe big limb, massa, pon dis side."""
12336,"I can do this I can marry Idris."""
12337,Nor do I use the word prosperity in its mere worldly sense.
12338,we asked: can we enter here?
12339,On every point of general literature he displays unbounded knowledge and a quick and piercing apprehension.
12340,Molehills . . . the damned place must be honeycombed . . .
12341,"Just as I dropped to sleep I fancied I heard faint sounds from the distance; sounds that were wild and half musical, and stirred me with a weird excitement which coloured my dreams."
12342,"""You know,"" he said, ""there are things that won't do for Newbury Street things that are out of place here, and that can't be conceived here, anyhow."
12343,"""We know not what all this wide world means; its strange mixture of good and evil."
12344,"The cat, I remembered, had been hung in a garden adjacent to the house."
12345,And then of what use would be pursuit?
12346,"Raymond was inspirited by the intense sensations of recovered health; he felt that in being general of the Athenians, he filled a post worthy of his ambition; and, in his hope of the conquest of Constantinople, he counted on an event which would be as a landmark in the waste of ages, an exploit unequalled in the annals of man; when a city of grand historic association, the beauty of whose site was the wonder of the world, which for many hundred years had been the strong hold of the Moslems, should be rescued from slavery and barbarism, and restored to a people illustrious for genius, civilization, and a spirit of liberty."
12347,"We lengthened our tour into Scotland, that we might see Loch Katrine and Loch Lomond; thence we crossed to Ireland, and passed several weeks in the neighbourhood of Killarney."
12348,"In a fit of enthusiastic madness I created a rational creature and was bound towards him to assure, as far as was in my power, his happiness and well being."
12349,"And these the dreams writhed in and about, taking hue from the rooms, and causing the wild music of the orchestra to seem as the echo of their steps."
12350,"One of his servants, while waiting on him, had suddenly fallen down dead."
12351,Yet his observation proves only the latter point.
12352,"Then, agitated as she had been by her mother's violence, and now by unaccustomed fears, she lay unable to sleep, starting at every sound."
12353,"A few persons had half seen it in the dark, and said it was white and like a malformed ape or anthropomorphic fiend."
12354,"The green woods waved their boughs majestically, while the dying were spread beneath their shade, answering the solemn melody with inharmonious cries."
12355,"Subsequently, however, he submitted to Monsieur G , affidavits, accounting satisfactorily for every hour of the day in question."
12356,Of late years it has visited the principal towns in the United States.
12357,"But as I stood in the tower's topmost chamber, I beheld the horned waning moon, red and sinister, quivering through the vapours that hovered over the distant valley of Banof."
12358,So matters went till that night when Williams brought home the infamous Necronomicon of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred.
12359,She shed indeed many tears; her head sunk unconsciously on the shoulder of Raymond; he held her hand: he kissed her sunken tear stained cheek.
12360,Yet how was I to do this?
12361,"I turned my attention, therefore, to Mud Dabbling, and continued it for some years."
12362,"That was it, by heaven The man was not a fantaisiste or romanticist at all he did not even try to give us the churning, prismatic ephemera of dreams, but coldly and sardonically reflected some stable, mechanistic, and well established horror world which he saw fully, brilliantly, squarely, and unfalteringly."
12363,"On landing at Athens we found difficulties encrease upon us: nor could the storied earth or balmy atmosphere inspire us with enthusiasm or pleasure, while the fate of Raymond was in jeopardy."
12364,By the middle of October we were puzzled by our lack of progress.
12365,"Three dogs that were with the party had barked furiously at first, but seemed cowed and reluctant when near the glen."
12366,"His sole garments were a stock of nine inches in height, and a nearly new drab overcoat which had formerly been in the service of the tall, stately, and illustrious Dr. Moneypenny."
12367,But more wonderful than the lore of old men and the lore of books is the secret lore of ocean.
12368,"I have failed in my duty and betrayed the marble city of Olathoë; I have proven false to Alos, my friend and commander."
12369,"Should they even trace the animal, it would be impossible to prove me cognizant of the murder, or to implicate me in guilt on account of that cognizance."
12370,"Some frightful influence, I felt, was seeking gradually to drag me out of the sane world of wholesome life into unnamable abysses of blackness and alienage; and the process told heavily on me."
12371,"In the matter of phrenology, for example, we first determined, naturally enough, that it was the design of the Deity that man should eat."
12372,The predatory excursions on which we collected our unmentionable treasures were always artistically memorable events.
12373,"The ""Chirurgical Journal"" of Leipsic a periodical of high authority and merit, which some American bookseller would do well to translate and republish, records in a late number a very distressing event of the character in question."
12374,"He had sought this office with eagerness, under the idea of turning his whole forces to the suppression of the privileged orders of our community."
12375,"Indeed, the greatest problem was to get them fresh enough West had had horrible experiences during his secret college researches with corpses of doubtful vintage."
12376,"I have heard it asserted that when Yellow or Pundit will have it Violet, who is supposed to have been the first aeronaut, maintained the practicability of traversing the atmosphere in all directions, by merely ascending or descending until a favorable current was attained, he was scarcely hearkened to at all by his contemporaries, who looked upon him as merely an ingenious sort of madman, because the philosophers ? of the day declared the thing impossible."
12377,"Armitage, having read the hideous diary, knew painfully well what kind of a manifestation to expect; but he did not add to the fright of the Dunwich people by giving any hints or clues."
12378,"Prompted by some preserving instinct of self defence, I broke through the spell that had hitherto held me immovable, and flung my now dying torch at the creature who menaced my existence."
12379,"""Yes, uncle that is, if it would be quite agreeable to yourself."""
12380,"I observed, however, that the shutters of the fourth story were of the peculiar kind called by Parisian carpenters ferrades a kind rarely employed at the present day, but frequently seen upon very old mansions at Lyons and Bordeaux."
12381,In M. Waldman I found a true friend.
12382,"The west of Ireland, too, is full of wild rumour and legendry, and a fantastic painter named Ardois Bonnot hangs a blasphemous ""Dream Landscape"" in the Paris spring salon of ."
12383,"He never once thought it probable, or possible, that the Minister had deposited the letter immediately beneath the nose of the whole world, by way of best preventing any portion of that world from perceiving it."
12384,"I have said that the whims of my friend were manifold, and that Je les ménageais: for this phrase there is no English equivalent."
12385,"By this time the tree by the tomb had attained amazing proportions, exceeding all other trees of its kind, and sending out a singularly heavy branch above the apartment in which Musides laboured."
12386,But what threw Gilman into a cold perspiration was the report of a pair of revellers who had been walking past the mouth of the gangway just after midnight.
12387,"She told me, that she had kept up her strength and courage till her arrival at my cottage, and then both failed."
12388,"The place always was badly cut off from the rest of the country by marshes and creeks, and we can't be sure about the ins and outs of the matter; but it's pretty clear that old Captain Marsh must have brought home some odd specimens when he had all three of his ships in commission back in the twenties and thirties."
12389,"I said to myself, ""Surely here I have found the perfection of natural, in contradistinction from artificial grace."""
12390,"Stubbs, upon sending forth his son Zerubbabel to seek his fortune in New England in for he thought ill of the Restoration atmosphere for a pious young yeoman, gave him St. Ibid's or rather Brother Ibid's, for he abhorred all that was Popish skull as a talisman."
12391,"And, in regard to the former branch, we must not fail to hold in view that the very Calculus of Probabilities to which I have referred, forbids all idea of the extension of the parallel: forbids it with a positiveness strong and decided just in proportion as this parallel has already been long drawn and exact."
12392,"In these Meetings we preserv'd a remarkable Degree of Amity and Tranquillity, which contrasts very favourably with some of the Dissensions and Disruptions I observe in the literary and amateur Press Associations of today."
12393,Oh it is the god Ashimah in proper person.
12394,"Never mingling much with his kind, he had dropped gradually from social visibility, and was now known only to a small group of aesthetes from other towns."
12395,"We felt extreme delight at our escape from political turmoil, and sought our solitude with redoubled zest."
12396,"""Matt Eliot, his fust mate, talked a lot, too, only he was agin' folks's doin' any heathen things."
12397,"But he has already recovered his spirits, and is reported to be on the point of marrying a lively pretty Frenchwoman, Madame Tavernier."
12398,"He shewed how England had become powerful, and its inhabitants valiant and wise, by means of the freedom they enjoyed."
12399,"""You mustn't try anything more with that thing."
12400,"You know what a fiend he was for revenge how he ruined old Raymond thirty years after their boundary suit, and how he stepped on the puppy that snapped at him a year ago last August. . . ."
12401,"There is no method in their proceedings, beyond the method of the moment."
12402,I would not have believed that any wave could rise so high.
12403,"She endeavoured to bring him up in a sense of resentment towards, and a desire to revenge himself upon, those who had been instrumental in bringing about his father's abdication."
12404,"But, letting this matter pass for the present, I will merely observe that, from the first moment of his setting foot within the limits of the university, he began to exercise over the habits, manners, persons, purses, and propensities of the whole community which surrounded him, an influence the most extensive and despotic, yet at the same time the most indefinite and altogether unaccountable."
12405,"He would come triumphantly to the district to which my parent had fled broken hearted; he would find the ill fated offspring, bequeathed with such vain confidence to his royal father, miserable paupers."
12406,"He then closes the back door, locks it, and, coming round to the front, opens the drawer to its full extent."
12407,"As my sickness quitted me, I was absorbed by a gloomy and black melancholy that nothing could dissipate."
12408,Was one of those who entered the building.
12409,Trever was the son of prominent parents in Appleton.
12410,"On Wednesday, June , , after a proper notification of Carrington Harris which did not include surmises as to what we expected to find, my uncle and I conveyed to the shunned house two camp chairs and a folding camp cot, together with some scientific mechanism of greater weight and intricacy."
12411,"Thick, well trimmed hair that argued the punctual calls of a barber was parted gracefully above a high forehead; and the whole picture was one of striking intelligence and superior blood and breeding."
12412,"Eventually there had been a hint of vast, leaping shadows, of a monstrous, half acoustic pulsing, and of the thin, monotonous piping of an unseen flute but that was all."
12413,"Noon never passed without my bringing home a customer to the house of my employers, Messrs. Cut Comeagain."
12414,"Our gentleman was a Britannia ware tea pot, and was careful to polish himself every morning with buckskin and whiting."""
12415,Memories and possibilities are ever more hideous than realities.
12416,I am almost devoured by ennui.
12417,"awful calamity walking under your windows some short while ago about the time you were stage struck horrible occurrence heard of ""catching one's breath,"" eh? hold your tongue I tell you I caught somebody elses had always too much of my own met Blab at the corner of the street wouldn't give me a chance for a word couldn't get in a syllable edgeways attacked, consequently, with epilepsis Blab made his escape damn all fools they took me up for dead, and put me in this place pretty doings all of them heard all you said about me every word a lie horrible wonderful outrageous hideous incomprehensible et cetera et cetera et cetera et cetera "" It is impossible to conceive my astonishment at so unexpected a discourse, or the joy with which I became gradually convinced that the breath so fortunately caught by the gentleman whom I soon recognized as my neighbor Windenough was, in fact, the identical expiration mislaid by myself in the conversation with my wife."
12418,"It was my primary object upon quitting Mr. Blackwood, to get into some immediate difficulty, pursuant to his advice, and with this view I spent the greater part of the day in wandering about Edinburgh, seeking for desperate adventures adventures adequate to the intensity of my feelings, and adapted to the vast character of the article I intended to write."
12419,"""Well, sir; that is at the rate of one thousand miles per hour."
12420,"In all violent eddies at sea there is good fishing, at proper opportunities, if one has only the courage to attempt it; but among the whole of the Lofoden coastmen, we three were the only ones who made a regular business of going out to the islands, as I tell you."
12421,"For awhile my labours were not solitary; but that time is gone; and, with the selected and matchless companion of my toils, their dearest reward is also lost to me Di mie tenere frondi altro lavoro Credea mostrarte; e qual fero pianeta Ne' nvidio insieme, o mio nobil tesoro?"
12422,"De Langlade regarded this sacred object with proper veneration and ransomed it at the expense of many glass beads; yet after his time it found itself in many other hands, being traded to settlements at the head of Lake Winnebago, to tribes around Lake Mendota, and finally, early in the nineteenth century, to one Solomon Juneau, a Frenchman, at the new trading post of Milwaukee on the Menominee River and the shore of Lake Michigan."
12423,"In the proclamation setting forth this reward, a full pardon was promised to any accomplice who should come forward in evidence against his fellow; and to the whole was appended, wherever it appeared, the private placard of a committee of citizens, offering ten thousand francs, in addition to the amount proposed by the Prefecture."
12424,"His soul was sympathy, and dedicated to the worship of beauty and excellence."
12425,"I owe this to Greece, to you, to my surviving Perdita, and to myself, the victim of ambition."""
12426,"In a moment I understood that he meant to open the hatch and plunge with me into the water outside, a vagary of suicidal and homicidal mania for which I was scarcely prepared."
12427,I took it up and placed it in my breast.
12428,"I saw that two of its iron angles were now acute two, consequently, obtuse."
12429,"When I recovered myself a little, however, my gaze fell instinctively downward."
12430,"There is an expression of despair, and sometimes of revenge, in your countenance that makes me tremble."
12431,"There was a show of gratitude and worship in his attachment to my mother, differing wholly from the doting fondness of age, for it was inspired by reverence for her virtues and a desire to be the means of, in some degree, recompensing her for the sorrows she had endured, but which gave inexpressible grace to his behaviour to her."
12432,This I could discern by the studied hair splitting farrago of his rejoinder.
12433,"I called assistance, and, with much difficulty, we brought him to himself."
12434,"Those whitish gold ornaments might easily have been bought from some Innsmouth sailor by the father of my great grandmother, whoever he was."
12435,"Write ""'The Epidendrum Flos Aeris, of Java, bears a very beautiful flower, and will live when pulled up by the roots."
12436,It came as some gentle visitation; it went and I hardly felt the loss.
12437,You minutely described in these papers every step you took in the progress of your work; this history was mingled with accounts of domestic occurrences.
12438,"It repelled him horribly, and revolted all his inherited delicacy; but his determination to taste life to the full remained with him, and he maintained a bold front."
12439,"A thousand vague and lachrymatory fancies took possession of my soul and even the idea of suicide flitted across my brain; but it is a trait in the perversity of human nature to reject the obvious and the ready, for the far distant and equivocal."
12440,"Not in the spaces we know, but between them, They walk serene and primal, undimensioned and to us unseen."
12441,"He was at length arrested, but nothing decisive appearing against him, was in the end set at liberty."
12442,"Why do you bring me out, and torture me, and tempt me, and kill me Much happier would it be for you and for me if in your frantic curiosity you tore my heart from my breast and tried to read its secrets in it as its life's blood was dropping from it."
12443,"All the strangeness and expectancy of his recent dreams seemed present in this hushed and unearthly landscape, and he thought of the unknown solitudes of other planets as his eyes traced out the velvet and deserted lawns shining undulant between their tumbled walls, the clumps of faery forest setting off far lines of purple hills beyond hills, and the spectral wooded valley dipping down in shadow to dank hollows where trickling waters crooned and gurgled among swollen and distorted roots."
12444,"When you first made this assertion I thought you were jesting; but afterwards I called to mind the peculiar spots on the back of the insect, and admitted to myself that your remark had some little foundation in fact."
12445,"""I thank you, but all that you mention is nothing to me; on the whole earth there is no comfort which I am capable of receiving."""
12446,"You will not have apprehended me rightly, however, if you suppose it my design to deny this thicket as the scene of the outrage."
12447,"How often hath he sung to me of lands that never were, and things that never can be Of Aira did he speak much; of Aira and the river Nithra, and the falls of the tiny Kra."
12448,"""Now, dear Victor, I dare say you wish to be indulged in a little gossip concerning the good people of Geneva."
12449,He trembles and is bewildered.
12450,"A few incidents now and then directed me, and I possessed a map of the country; but I often wandered wide from my path."
12451,"The females received them on their return with the simple and affectionate welcome known before only to the lowly cottage a clean hearth and bright fire; the supper ready cooked by beloved hands; gratitude for the provision for to morrow's meal: strange enjoyments for the high born English, yet they were now their sole, hard earned, and dearly prized luxuries."
12452,"In vain did the eye strive to find the wreck of some northern cloud in the stainless empyrean, which might bring hope of change and moisture to the oppressive and windless atmosphere."
12453,"His wife my mother, whom he married at fifteen was a Mademoiselle Croissart, eldest daughter of Croissart the banker, whose wife, again, being only sixteen when married, was the eldest daughter of one Victor Voissart."
12454,"This fear grew stronger from what had before lessened it, for the more I looked at the old man's bland face the more its very blandness terrified me."
12455,"Sometimes he thought that I felt deeply the degradation of being obliged to answer a charge of murder, and he endeavoured to prove to me the futility of pride."
12456,His breath gave evidence of the poison.
12457,My death is rapidly approaching and you are not near to watch the flitting and vanishing of my spirit.
12458,"He Woodville, mourned the loss of his bride: others wept the various forms of misery as they visited them: but infamy and guilt was mingled with my portion; unlawful and detestable passion had poured its poison into my ears and changed all my blood, so that it was no longer the kindly stream that supports life but a cold fountain of bitterness corrupted in its very source."
12459,"He would embark in a balloon; he would sail for a distant quarter of the world, where his name and humiliation were unknown."
12460,"Men of his blood had once ruled over Kilderry and built and dwelt in the castle, but those days were very remote, so that for generations the castle had been empty and decaying."
12461,"After about three quarters of an hour without the least sign of life he disappointedly pronounced the solution inadequate, but determined to make the most of his opportunity and try one change in the formula before disposing of his ghastly prize."
12462,"At length, I even offered her personal violence."
12463,"When the large clapper thought proper to say ""Twelve o'clock"" all its obedient followers opened their throats simultaneously, and responded like a very echo."
12464,"""You thought ultra violet was invisible, and so it is but you can see that and many other invisible things now."
12465,"I had thought of forcing the blade in some minute crevice of the masonry, so as to identify my point of departure."
12466,"I felt this, and, in many matters, became her pupil."
12467,"Her voice was low, and her whole manner subdued."
12468,"""Admirable"" he ejaculated, thrown quite off his guard by the beauty of the manoeuvre."
12469,"His fourth was an object of unceasing pursuit; and he held that, other things being equal, the extent of happiness was proportioned to the spirituality of this object."
12470,"When the doors were shut, the dwarf was enabled to bring his body within the box the noise produced by some portion of the machinery allowing him to do so unheard, and also to close the door by which he entered."
12471,"It is, indeed, exceedingly difficult to speculate prospectively upon the consequences of the discovery, but one thing may be positively maintained that the announcement of the discovery six months ago would have had material influence in regard to the settlement of California."
12472,"""Perhaps it is the very simplicity of the thing which puts you at fault,"" said my friend."
12473,"The country bore an aspect more than usually sinister as we viewed it by night and without the accustomed crowds of investigators, so that we were often tempted to use the acetylene headlight despite the attention it might attract."
12474,"By degrees his health was shaken by his misery, and then his intellect yielded to the same tyranny."
12475,"This answer startled me, but I presently recovered myself."
12476,"Evidently he found the society of a well born man a rare novelty in this dingy environment, and was moved to unaccustomed speech as memories of better days surged over him."
12477,"The abode of the race whose scions are here inurned had once crowned the declivity which holds the tomb, but had long since fallen victim to the flames which sprang up from a disastrous stroke of lightning."
12478,"I found if sorrow was dead within me, so was love and desire of sympathy."
12479,His castles were without number.
12480,"Listen to me, and then reflect if you ought to win me to your project, even if with the over bearing eloquence of despair you could make black death so inviting that the fair heaven should appear darkness."
12481,"At the moment, I felt convinced that I was acting for the best, and that all I did was right and even necessary."
12482,You doubtless recollect these papers.
12483,Some gazed on these processions with wild eagerness others fled timidly some wept aloud.
12484,Let us survey the appearances here.
12485,"""Ha ha ha"" said he, ""curse you yes"" ""To be sure of course I knew you were jesting."
12486,"""The 'good glass,' I knew, could have reference to nothing but a telescope; for the word 'glass' is rarely employed in any other sense by seamen."
12487,"He eats your dinner, he drinks your wine, he borrows your money, he pulls your nose, he kicks your poodle, and he kisses your wife."
12488,"All factitious colouring disappeared death rose like night, and, protected by its murky shadows the blush of modesty, the reserve of pride, the decorum of prudery were frequently thrown aside as useless veils."
12489,"Then the appearance of death was distant, although the wish was ever present to my thoughts; and I often sat for hours motionless and speechless, wishing for some mighty revolution that might bury me and my destroyer in its ruins."
12490,"Where Gilman could have been, how he got back to his room without making tracks in the hall, and how the muddy, furniture like prints came to be mixed with his in the garret chamber, were wholly beyond conjecture."
12491,"I now tell it to you and I can scarcely expect you to put more faith in it than did the merry fishermen of Lofoden."""
12492,"The hidden cults to which these witches belonged often guarded and handed down surprising secrets from elder, forgotten aeons; and it was by no means impossible that Keziah had actually mastered the art of passing through dimensional gates."
12493,Could not call it a shrill voice.
12494,"Among other things, I had the family vault so remodelled as to admit of being readily opened from within."
12495,"Not more than six steps from the main door of the cottage stood the dead trunk of a fantastic pear tree, so clothed from head to foot in the gorgeous bignonia blossoms that one required no little scrutiny to determine what manner of sweet thing it could be."
12496,"While I was thus engaged, Ernest entered: he had heard me arrive, and hastened to welcome me: ""Welcome, my dearest Victor,"" said he. ""Ah I wish you had come three months ago, and then you would have found us all joyous and delighted."
12497,At this juncture the shutter began to rattle in a howling night wind which had sprung up outside as if in answer to the mad playing within.
12498,"I wish to God my young and talented friend Chiponchipino, the sculptor, had but seen the legs of Brevet Brigadier General John A. B. C. Smith."
12499,"She was a very beautiful and painfully modest young lady, who thought the ordinary mode of habiliment indecent, and wished to dress herself, always, by getting outside instead of inside of her clothes."
12500,"The Earl of Ross's telescope, lately constructed in England, has a speculum with a reflecting surface of , square inches; the Herschel telescope having one of only ,."
12501,Alfred's serious air shewed that he still revolved the tragic story related by the Italian boy.
12502,"You might do a little more, I think, eh?"" ""How? in what way?' ""Why puff, puff you might puff, puff employ counsel in the matter, eh? puff, puff, puff."
12503,"But he was unmoved, and cried: ""If I am mad, it is mercy May the gods pity the man who in his callousness can remain sane to the hideous end Come and be mad whilst he still calls with mercy"" This outburst seemed to relieve a pressure in his brain; for as he finished he grew much milder, asking me to let him depart alone if I would not accompany him."
12504,"Once most of the young men went away, and some never came back."
12505,Thus my own inkling for the Muses had excited his entire displeasure.
12506,"He accosted me with excessive warmth, for he had been drinking much."
12507,"great wretches, those Bugaboos savage and so on but we live in a wonderfully inventive age Smith O yes great man perfect desperado immortal renown prodigies of valor Never heard"" This was given in a scream."
12508,"With this, she took my arm, and I attended her home."
12509,"'I fear that I shall never see Marie again.' ""But if we cannot imagine Madame Rogêt privy to the design of elopement, may we not at least suppose this design entertained by the girl?"
12510,"What it suggested, however, was of portentous significance to my flagging quest; and I carefully tore it out for immediate action."
12511,"The noise lasted for several minutes, during which, that I might hearken to it with the more satisfaction, I ceased my labors and sat down upon the bones."
12512,"Five of the worshippers lay dead, and two severely wounded ones were carried away on improvised stretchers by their fellow prisoners."
12513,"Such had been Ryland's plan, and he was discovered dead and half devoured by insects, in a house many miles from any other, with piles of food laid up in useless superfluity."
12514,She prayed for her husband's soul; she conjured the Supreme to place on her head the crime of his self destruction she vowed to live to expiate his fault.
12515,It was a triple stemmed tulip tree the Liriodendron Tulipiferum one of the natural order of magnolias.
12516,It must be the excess of madness that could make me imagine that I could ever be aught but one alone; struck off from humanity; bearing no affinity to man or woman; a wretch on whom Nature had set her ban.
12517,"Of his own condition he could not well judge, for sight of his arms, legs, and torso seemed always cut off by some odd disarrangement of perspective; but he felt that his physical organisation and faculties were somehow marvellously transmuted and obliquely projected though not without a certain grotesque relationship to his normal proportions and properties."
12518,"Beneath it was worn an under one of some frail material, close fitting, and terminated by a cuff of rich lace, which fell gracefully over the top of the hand, revealing only the delicate fingers, upon one of which sparkled a diamond ring, which I at once saw was of extraordinary value."
12519,"Do you think that I will be questioned, and my replies disdainfully set aside? Do you think that I will be suspected, perhaps watched, cross questioned, and disbelieved?"
12520,I could scarcely restrain the excessive transport which possessed me.
12521,He buries his face in the pillow.
12522,"Each felt, that England had never seen a Protector so capable of fulfilling the arduous duties of that high office."
12523,Your diddler is impertinent.
12524,"They seemed to hate and fear him at the same time, and he seemed to return these sentiments."
12525,"HAPPY, thrice happy, were the months, and weeks, and hours of that year."
12526,"Adrian suddenly vanished; and, by the time that Raymond's supporters were reduced to our intimate friends merely, returned leading Idris to congratulate her friend on his success."
12527,"In biography the truth is every thing, and in autobiography it is especially so yet I scarcely hope to be believed when I state, however solemnly, that my poor father put me, when I was about fifteen years of age, into the counting house of what be termed ""a respectable hardware and commission merchant doing a capital bit of business"" A capital bit of fiddlestick However, the consequence of this folly was, that in two or three days, I had to be sent home to my button headed family in a high state of fever, and with a most violent and dangerous pain in the sinciput, all around about my organ of order."
12528,"Trever seemed dazed in the confusion, and shrank to the wall as the strife thickened."
12529,"For it is evident that such a medium must, in retarding the comet's velocity, increase its centripetal, by weakening its centrifugal force."
12530,"""Yet how can I expect you to sympathize with me?"
12531,"One canvas shewed a ring of them baying about a hanged witch on Gallows Hill, whose dead face held a close kinship to theirs."
12532,After a little while I became possessed with the keenest curiosity about the whirl itself.
12533,"I heard my sister's sobs, and thought, happy are women who can weep, and in a passionate caress disburthen the oppression of their feelings; shame and habitual restraint hold back a man."
12534,In the meanwhile I could not help making anticipations.
12535,"It is not dream it is not, I fear, even madness for too much has already happened to give me these merciful doubts."
12536,"Through this crevice a small room was visible, whitewashed and clean but very bare of furniture."
12537,"While my former system was in operation, and my patients were permitted the privilege of roaming to and fro at will, they were often aroused to a dangerous frenzy by injudicious persons who called to inspect the house."
12538,"I did not tell her, that to spare her the pang of parting from inanimate objects, now the only things left, I had resolved that we should none of us return to Windsor."
12539,I left a guard to protect this treasure of dust; and ordered perpetual torches to be burned around.
12540,"From the tangle of chimney pots scarcely a wisp of smoke came, and the three tall steeples loomed stark and unpainted against the seaward horizon."
12541,"Strange, brilliant flowers, star shaped, burn out upon the trees where no flowers had been known before."
12542,"The most general opinion in relation to it, an opinion too not unfrequently adopted by men who should have known better, was, as we have before said, that no immediate human agency was employed in other words, that the machine was purely a machine and nothing else."
12543,"""And yet you rescued me from a strange and perilous situation; you have benevolently restored me to life."""
12544,"At length, erecting his frame, he looked upwards, and ejaculated the lines of the Bishop of Chichester: ""Stay for me there I will not fail To meet thee in that hollow vale."""
12545,A certain consistency in the strange papers of his ancestor suggested that the madman's imagination might have been stimulated by native myths.
12546,Shouts of laughter ascend the skies.
12547,There are some subjects upon which I take pleasure in being minute.
12548,"The shriek of fright and impotent malice emitted by the would be assassin proved too much for my already shaken nerves, and I fell prone upon the slimy floor in a total faint."
12549,"After this the will of the patient succumbed rapidly to that of the physician, so that, when I first became acquainted with the two, sleep was brought about almost instantaneously by the mere volition of the operator, even when the invalid was unaware of his presence."
12550,"Over everything was a pall of intensely maddening fear, and the climax was reached when the furry thing ran up the dreamer's clothing to his shoulders and then down his left arm, finally biting him sharply in the wrist just below his cuff."
12551,"By the time, however, that the fog had thoroughly disappeared, the sun had made its way down behind the gentle hills, and thence, as if with a slight chassez to the south, had come again fully into sight, glaring with a purplish lustre through a chasm that entered the valley from the west."
12552,"And against the rotting wharves the sea pounded; the secretive, immemorial sea out of which the people had come in the elder time."
12553,"""One"" said the clock."
12554,"The sea of people is coming this way, and we shall find a difficulty in stemming the tide."
12555,But in his toilsome journey to the water his fears redouble within him.
12556,"The practices I heard attributed to him would be unbelievable today, at least in a city; and even Peck Valley would have shuddered a bit had it known the easy ethics of its mortuary artist in such debatable matters as the ownership of costly ""laying out"" apparel invisible beneath the casket's lid, and the degree of dignity to be maintained in posing and adapting the unseen members of lifeless tenants to containers not always calculated with sublimest accuracy."
12557,"To the south then, to the sun where nature is kind, where Jove has showered forth the contents of Amalthea's horn, and earth is garden."
12558,"For many seconds I hearkened to its reverberations as it dashed against the sides of the chasm in its descent; at length there was a sullen plunge into water, succeeded by loud echoes."
12559,"When the grim Darkness overspread the Earth, then, with every horror of thought, I shook shook as the quivering plumes upon the hearse."
12560,"In the dazzling violet light of dream the old woman and the fanged, furry thing came again and with a greater distinctness than on any former occasion."
12561,"They are in the form of an ordinary door, a single, not a folding door except that the lower half is latticed or worked in open trellis thus affording an excellent hold for the hands."
12562,"Forced it open, at length, with a bayonet not with a crowbar."
12563,"What if I told you that I've got another studio up there, where I can catch the night spirit of antique horror and paint things that I couldn't even think of in Newbury Street?"
12564,"Gilman came from Haverhill, but it was only after he had entered college in Arkham that he began to connect his mathematics with the fantastic legends of elder magic."
12565,"Those who know any thing of the vicinity of Paris, know the extreme difficulty of finding seclusion unless at a great distance from its suburbs."
12566,"We soon ran out our guide rope; but even when we had raised it clear of the earth, we still went up very rapidly."
12567,"The witchcraft terror is a horrible ray of light on what was stewing in men's crushed brains, but even that is a trifle."
12568,"The body now twitched more vigorously, and beneath our avid eyes commenced to heave in a frightful way."
12569,"If an old Roman of the period of the Republic had returned to life, and talked of the impending election of some laurel crowned consul, or of the last battle with Mithridates, his ideas would not have been more alien to the times, than the conversation of Merrival."
12570,"A portion of it may form, when tightly stretched, the only partitions which there is any necessity for removing during the changes of the man's position, viz: the partition between the rear of the main compartment and the rear of the cupboard No. , and the partition between the main compartment, and the space behind the drawer when open."
12571,"He called upon us early in the afternoon of the thirteenth of July, , and remained with us until late in the night."
12572,He feared that the intensity of his passion might become the subject of their ridicule; and he could not bear that they should blaspheme it by considering that trivial and transitory which he felt was the life of his life.
12573,"And overhead, scarce ten degrees from the zenith, glowed that watching Pole Star."
12574,That flopping or pattering was monstrous I could not look upon the degenerate creatures responsible for it.
12575,"The whole thought was now present feeble, scarcely sane, scarcely definite, but still entire."
12576,How could I save them?
12577,"If the guess is right, the guesser wins one; if wrong, he loses one."
12578,"Some of my comrades groaned, and my own mind began to grow watchful with anxious thoughts, when a strange sight suddenly attracted our attention and diverted our solicitude from our own situation."
12579,"The ship sank quite picturesquely, bow first, the stern rising high out of the water whilst the hull shot down perpendicularly to the bottom of the sea."
12580,"The genius that enlightened her countenance, was now united to an expression of benevolence, which gave divine perfection to her beauty."
12581,"As I began my request the wrinkled satyr like face lost the bored placidity it had possessed during the playing, and seemed to shew the same curious mixture of anger and fright which I had noticed when first I accosted the old man."
12582,"Ever since his son had commenced to grow out of infancy he had liked his home less and less, till at last he had seemed to dread it."
12583,"Agatha fainted, and Safie, unable to attend to her friend, rushed out of the cottage."
12584,"It was composed by my pet baboon, Juniper, over a rummer of Hollands and water, 'hot, without sugar.'"""
12585,"""It was dark when I awoke; I felt cold also, and half frightened, as it were, instinctively, finding myself so desolate."
12586,"""Dupin"" I said, completely unnerved; ""this hair is most unusual this is no human hair."""
12587,"The place was a four story mansion of brownstone, dating apparently from the late forties, and fitted with woodwork and marble whose stained and sullied splendour argued a descent from high levels of tasteful opulence."
12588,"""You will see,"" he said, ""that I have shifted the question from the mode of egress to that of ingress."
12589,"Anyway, they're a doubtful lot now, and the Marshes and the other rich folks are as bad as any."
12590,"As Slater grew older, it appeared, his matutinal aberrations had gradually increased in frequency and violence; till about a month before his arrival at the institution had occurred the shocking tragedy which caused his arrest by the authorities."
12591,"We did not know how far he had to go, and soon separated, supposing that in a short time he would return to the palace with Perdita, and that they would not be sorry to find themselves alone."
12592,"It was after a night like this that I shocked the community with a queer conceit about the burial of the rich and celebrated Squire Brewster, a maker of local history who was interred in , and whose slate headstone, bearing a graven skull and crossbones, was slowly crumbling to powder."
12593,"The ruins of majestic oaks which had grown, flourished, and decayed during the progress of centuries, marked where the limits of the forest once reached, while the shattered palings and neglected underwood shewed that this part was deserted for the younger plantations, which owed their birth to the beginning of the nineteenth century, and now stood in the pride of maturity."
12594,For me it is no matter.
12595,"I could not, I decided, risk an emergence into the corridor; where my footsteps would surely be heard, and where the difficulties of entering the desired room would be insuperable."
12596,"It was, indeed, a filthy process in which I was engaged."
12597,"Having reached his closet, I noiselessly entered, leaving the lamp, with a shade over it, on the outside."
12598,"When, coming out from among mankind, I passed into Night through the Grave at that period, if I remember aright, the calamity which overwhelmed you was utterly unanticipated."
12599,"There is no answer, except that we feel perverse, using the word with no comprehension of the principle."
12600,"He would babble of current topics, revealing a wide acquaintance with newspapers and a great tendency to philosophise in a sententious village fashion."
12601,"The windows, both of the back and front room, were down and firmly fastened from within."
12602,"Having cast her fate upon a die, and feeling secure of winning, she, whom I have named as bearing the stamp of queen of nations on her noble brow, now rose superior to humanity, and seemed in calm power, to arrest with her finger, the wheel of destiny."
12603,"Her person was formed in the most feminine proportions; she was not tall, but her mountain life had given freedom to her motions, so that her light step scarce made her foot fall heard as she tript across the hall to meet me."
12604,"As for Republicanism, no analogy could be found for it upon the face of the earth unless we except the case of the ""prairie dogs,"" an exception which seems to demonstrate, if anything, that democracy is a very admirable form of government for dogs."
12605,This was the only cloud in the azure of her happiness.
12606,Then one night his grandfather reminded him of a key.
12607,"The gigantic stature, the prodigious strength and activity, the wild ferocity, and the imitative propensities of these mammalia are sufficiently well known to all."
12608,"""You turn from me; yet before you deny me reflect, Woodville, how sweet it were to cast off the load of tears and misery under which we now labour: and surely we shall find light after we have passed the dark valley."
12609,I shivered as the cracked stroke of three sounded from a belfry on my left.
12610,"The landlord was in, and greeted him pleasantly."
12611,He was too upright and noble to do aught that his conscience would not approve; I did not yet know of the crime there may be in involuntary feeling and therefore ascribed his tumultuous starts and gloomy looks wholly to the struggles of his mind and not any as they were partly due to the worst fiend of all Remorse.
12612,"After this Martha was seated more firmly than ever on the regal seat, elevated by reverence and love."
12613,"The latter method of obtaining the desired intelligence was dilatory and unsatisfactory; besides, I had an insurmountable aversion to the idea of engaging myself in my loathsome task in my father's house while in habits of familiar intercourse with those I loved."
12614,"A glance, however, at his countenance, convinced me of his perfect sincerity."
12615,"Pirouette she was not to be discovered, and I made my retreat from the house in a very bitter spirit of animosity against the whole race of the Bas Bleus."
12616,"But, uplifting my eyes, I saw that Berenice stood before me."
12617,"Nor did the spirit change when they tore open the earth to lay down strange pipes, or when they set up tall posts bearing weird wires."
12618,I fulfilled my commission; I saw Karazza.
12619,"Ay, ay,"" continued he, observing my face expressive of suffering, ""M."
12620,"A small protuberance about eight inches square, and also covered with dark cloth, lies on the floor of the compartment near the rear corner on the spectators' left hand."
12621,"During my father's life time I had always been of an affectionate and forbearing disposition, but since those days of joy alas I was much changed."
12622,West did not resist or utter a sound.
12623,"We were lifted above the Alpine peaks, and from their deep and brawling ravines entered the plain of fair France, and after an airy journey of six days, we landed at Dieppe, furled the feathered wings, and closed the silken globe of our little pinnace."
12624,As the man rambled on Gilman felt a nameless panic clutch at his throat.
12625,"At home he would pore diligently over the queer pictures and charts in his grandfather's books, while Old Whateley would instruct and catechise him through long, hushed afternoons."
12626,"Oh Beloved One, I am borne away; I can no longer sustain myself; surely this is death that is coming."
12627,"To one end of the cravat I then made fast the buckle, and the other end I tied, for greater security, tightly around my wrist."
12628,"He put his hands up to them, but found that they did not even approximately fit."
12629,For a very long period of time I was accustomed to revel in this sentiment.
12630,"Now, my dear friend, I do assure you, most positively, that I represent this matter fairly, on the soundest authority and you can easily understand how a notion so absurd on its very face must have operated to retard the progress of all true knowledge which makes its advances almost invariably by intuitive bounds."
12631,Grin: Your true diddler winds up all with a grin.
12632,"The very spirit of the Greek mythology inhabited my heart; I deified the uplands, glades, and streams, I Had sight of Proteus coming from the sea; And heard old Triton blow his wreathed horn."
12633,"With perfect certainty, therefore, of being comprehended, I beg leave, in lieu of offering any sentiments of my own, to refer you to the opinions of Sieur Hedelin, as set forth in the ninth paragraph of the chapter of ""Injuriae per applicationem, per constructionem, et per se,"" in his ""Duelli Lex scripta, et non; aliterque."""
12634,"This is the mode by which the mind of the rudimental life communicates with the external world; and this external world is, to the rudimental life, limited, through the idiosyncrasy of its organs."
12635,"""As the night advanced, a fierce wind arose from the woods and quickly dispersed the clouds that had loitered in the heavens; the blast tore along like a mighty avalanche and produced a kind of insanity in my spirits that burst all bounds of reason and reflection."
12636,"And, as my business habits, in this respect, were sufficiently understood, I never met with any attempt at imposition."
12637,But for this circumstance we should have foundered at once for we lay entirely buried for some moments.
12638,"It ran thus: ""To pen an Ode upon the 'Oil of Bob.'"" Having carefully looked out, however, all the legitimate rhymes to ""Bob,"" I found it impossible to proceed."
12639,"Genius, devotion, and courage; the adornments of his mind, and the energies of his soul, all exerted to their uttermost stretch, could not roll back one hair's breadth the wheel of time's chariot; that which had been was written with the adamantine pen of reality, on the everlasting volume of the past; nor could agony and tears suffice to wash out one iota from the act fulfilled."
12640,"Again I tried to read, but found that I made no progress."
12641,"I longed, yet dared not to employ my vision."
12642,"It is also a duty owed to yourself, for excessive sorrow prevents improvement or enjoyment, or even the discharge of daily usefulness, without which no man is fit for society."""
12643,"I now sought Adrian, anxious to hear the result of his discussion with Ryland."
12644,"Dark wanderers they were, and unlike the other roving folk who passed through the village twice every year."
12645,"In fine, she revived."
12646,As I said these words I busied myself among the pile of bones of which I have before spoken.
12647,"Not to oppose it under such circumstances, I sincerely believe, was not in his power."
12648,"The news spread through Athens, and the whole city poured out at the gate of the Piraeus, down the roads, through the vineyards, the olive woods and plantations of fig trees, towards the harbour."
12649,"Look at me how I labored how I toiled how I wrote Ye Gods, did I not write?"
12650,"Two small boys, sons of a Madame Deluc, while roaming among the woods near the Barrière du Roule, chanced to penetrate a close thicket, within which were three or four large stones, forming a kind of seat, with a back and footstool."
12651,"Mr. Freyhere's book was a pretty large one, and copiously illustrated by colored engravings."
12652,"The blue Mediterranean appeared, and by a strange chance, I saw the fiend enter by night and hide himself in a vessel bound for the Black Sea."
12653,"Madame L'Espanaye and her daughter, habited in their night clothes, had apparently been occupied in arranging some papers in the iron chest already mentioned, which had been wheeled into the middle of the room."
12654,"This appeared to him the primary step towards manhood, and he was proportionably pleased."
12655,"""Such a hurricane as then blew it is folly to attempt describing."
12656,"My apparatus all continued in good order, and the balloon still ascended without any perceptible vacillation."
12657,"But with their marvelling was mixed hate, for they thought it not meet that beings of such aspect should walk about the world of men at dusk."
12658,He found what he expected a skull crushed cruelly as if by savage blows so returning to Albany he openly charged the Martenses with the murder of their kinsman.
12659,"Even more puzzling, though, was the final case which put an end to the renting of the house a series of anaemia deaths preceded by progressive madnesses wherein the patient would craftily attempt the lives of his relatives by incisions in the neck or wrist."
12660,"If I can save one of her mighty spirits from the deadly shaft; if I can ward disease from one of her smiling cottages, I shall not have lived in vain."""
12661,I prayed I wearied heaven with my prayer for its more speedy descent.
12662,The fiftieth part of a line could not escape us.
12663,"A confusion of associated ideas possessed my brain, leading me to grope back toward the farthest corner of the cellar."
12664,"I watched over my hasty temper, subdued my burning impatience of character, schooled my self engrossing thoughts, educating myself to the best perfection I might attain, that the fruit of my exertions might be his happiness."
12665,"Indeed, phenomena have there occurred of a nature so completely unexpected so entirely novel so utterly at variance with preconceived opinions as to leave no doubt on my mind that long ere this all Europe is in an uproar, all physics in a ferment, all reason and astronomy together by the ears."
12666,Our Castle became an asylum for the unhappy.
12667,"That the ghastly extremes of agony are endured by man the unit, and never by man the mass for this let us thank a merciful God To be buried while alive is, beyond question, the most terrific of these extremes which has ever fallen to the lot of mere mortality."
12668,You have heard of the pineal gland?
12669,"They penetrate, however, rudderless or compassless into the vast ocean of the ""light ineffable,"" and again, like the adventures of the Nubian geographer, ""agressi sunt mare tenebrarum, quid in eo esset exploraturi."""
12670,"They call them gold like things pirate loot, an' allaow the Innsmouth folks hez furren blood or is distempered or somethin'."
12671,"Regiment after regiment advanced, their colours flying and bands playing."
12672,"Swimming races out to Devil Reef were very common, and everyone in sight seemed well able to share in this arduous sport."
12673,"'A piece,' it says, 'of one of the unfortunate girl's petticoats, two feet long, and one foot wide, was torn out and tied under her chin, and around the back of her head, probably to prevent screams."
12674,"I shiver as I speak of them, and dare not be explicit; though I will say that my friend once wrote on paper a wish which he dared not utter with his tongue, and which made me burn the paper and look affrightedly out of the window at the spangled night sky."
12675,"About two o'clock he went out for lunch, and as he threaded the narrow lanes of the city he found himself turning always to the southeast."
12676,"The greater part of the fearful night had worn away, and she who had been dead, once again stirred and now more vigorously than hitherto, although arousing from a dissolution more appalling in its utter hopelessness than any."
12677,"Soon we heard their disorderly clamour, the barbarian shouts, the untimed step of thousands coming on in disarray."
12678,"I cannot deny that there has always existed, as if in that very soul which I have been denying, a vague half sentiment of its own existence."
12679,"With sunken cheek and hollow eyes, pale and gaunt, how could I recognize the beloved of Perdita?"
12680,"I watched him, but could make but little of him."
12681,"We read much in Alhazred's Necronomicon about its properties, and about the relation of ghouls' souls to the objects it symbolised; and were disturbed by what we read."
12682,After a time the man left me alone in the attic room.
12683,"After a moment of gazing Morgan cried out sharply, passing the glass to Earl Sawyer and indicating a certain spot on the slope with his finger."
12684,"The front door of the house had been left open, and the visiter had entered, without ringing, and advanced several steps upon the staircase."
12685,The usual approach to Arnheim was by the river.
12686,"We must cut him at once."""
12687,"""I am thunderstruck at the extent of your information I am positively upon my soul."""
12688,"I did this, and the clamorer grew still."
12689,"The Ourang Outang must have escaped from the chamber, by the rod, just before the break of the door."
12690,"Dogs had a fear of me, for they felt the outside shadow which never left my side."
12691,I must do justice to my sweet sister: it was not for herself that she was thus agonized.
12692,"""The graoun' was a talkin' lass night, an' towards mornin' Cha'ncey he heerd the whippoorwills so laoud in Col' Spring Glen he couldn't sleep nun."
12693,"Let us set these characters down, thus, by the letters we know them to represent, leaving a space for the unknown t eeth."
12694,"Their pronunciation was quick, and the words they uttered, not having any apparent connection with visible objects, I was unable to discover any clue by which I could unravel the mystery of their reference."
12695,His course was speedily decided upon.
12696,These dimensions are fully sufficient for the accommodation of a man very much above the common size and the main compartment alone is capable of holding any ordinary man in the position we have mentioned as assumed by the person concealed.
12697,"He was incapable of meeting these evils by any comprehensive system; he had resorted to expedient after expedient, and could never be induced to put a remedy in force, till it came too late to be of use."
12698,"The sun of youth is not set for you; it will restore vigour and life to you; do not resist with obstinate grief its beneficent influence, oh, my child bless me with the hope that I have not utterly destroyed you."
12699,I could scarcely contain my feelings of triumph.
12700,"Here, it will be remembered, the words of the narrative run thus: ""And Ethelred, who was by nature of a doughty heart, and who was now mighty withal, on account of the powerfulness of the wine which he had drunken, waited no longer to hold parley with the hermit, who, in sooth, was of an obstinate and maliceful turn, but, feeling the rain upon his shoulders, and fearing the rising of the tempest, uplifted his mace outright, and, with blows, made quickly room in the plankings of the door for his gauntleted hand; and now pulling therewith sturdily, he so cracked, and ripped, and tore all asunder, that the noise of the dry and hollow sounding wood alarummed and reverberated throughout the forest."""
12701,The glee at my heart was too strong to be restrained.
12702,"Idris sat at the bedside, holding Evelyn's hand; we were afraid to speak to each other; I watched the stars I hung over my child I felt his little pulse I drew near the mother again I receded."
12703,"Then mighty art thou, O wind, to be throned above all other vicegerents of nature's power; whether thou comest destroying from the east, or pregnant with elementary life from the west; thee the clouds obey; the sun is subservient to thee; the shoreless ocean is thy slave Thou sweepest over the earth, and oaks, the growth of centuries, submit to thy viewless axe; the snow drift is scattered on the pinnacles of the Alps, the avalanche thunders down their vallies."
12704,"But it was augmented and rendered sublime by the mighty Alps, whose white and shining pyramids and domes towered above all, as belonging to another earth, the habitations of another race of beings."
12705,"I and my enemy were still struggling, when the wounded man exclaimed, ""The Earl"" I sprang out of the herculean hold of the keeper, panting from my exertions; I cast furious glances on my persecutors, and placing myself with my back to a tree, resolved to defend myself to the last."
12706,"""In the meantime the breeze that had headed us off fell away, and we were dead becalmed, drifting about in every direction."
12707,"She was intoning some croaking ritual in a language which Gilman could not understand, but which seemed like something guardedly quoted in the Necronomicon."
12708,"""We had rather hot work of it, that you may say."
12709,"They were in the end all sunk, and, with the exception of two or three prisoners, the crews drowned."
12710,"Adrian replied, ""Whither indeed would you fly?"
12711,but had she then grown taller since her malady?
12712,But I did not feel the inconvenience of the weather; my imagination was busy in scenes of evil and despair.
12713,"I often refused to accompany him, alleging another engagement, that I might remain alone."
12714,"On one of the staircases, I met the physician of the family."
12715,"There came a wild rattling or jingling sound, as if of a bunch of large keys, and upon the instant a dusky visaged and half naked man rushed past me with a shriek."
12716,"I perceived that my chances were very slender, and was fully prepared for any calamity."
12717,I RETURNED to my family estate in the autumn of the year .
12718,"My attitude was still one of absolute materialism, as I wish it still were, and I discounted with almost inexplicable perversity the coincidence of the dream notes and odd cuttings collected by Professor Angell."
12719,"Dombrowski called her, and she waddled in."
12720,You can bet that prying strangers ain't welcome around Innsmouth.
12721,At first his mother treated his theories as the wild ravings of inexperience.
12722,"It should be remembered, however, that when I fell in the first instance, from the car, if I had fallen with my face turned toward the balloon, instead of turned outwardly from it, as it actually was; or if, in the second place, the cord by which I was suspended had chanced to hang over the upper edge, instead of through a crevice near the bottom of the car, I say it may be readily conceived that, in either of these supposed cases, I should have been unable to accomplish even as much as I had now accomplished, and the wonderful adventures of Hans Pfaall would have been utterly lost to posterity, I had therefore every reason to be grateful; although, in point of fact, I was still too stupid to be anything at all, and hung for, perhaps, a quarter of an hour in that extraordinary manner, without making the slightest farther exertion whatsoever, and in a singularly tranquil state of idiotic enjoyment."
12723,"Legrasse and his men, it is true, have been let alone; but in Norway a certain seaman who saw things is dead."
12724,"""There are two windows in the chamber."
12725,How did he know the time when Nahab and her acolyte were due to bear the brimming bowl which would follow the black cock and the black goat?
12726,"Perhaps, after the labours and stupendous excitement of the past summer, the calm of winter and the almost menial toils it brought with it, were by natural re action doubly irksome."
12727,Blood was its Avatar and its seal the redness and the horror of blood.
12728,My father observed with pain the alteration perceptible in my disposition and habits and endeavoured by arguments deduced from the feelings of his serene conscience and guiltless life to inspire me with fortitude and awaken in me the courage to dispel the dark cloud which brooded over me.
12729,"This state lasted but for an instant; the scream was repeated, and I rushed into the room."
12730,"But other generations will arise, and ever and for ever will continue, to be made happier by our present acts, to be glorified by our valour."
12731,"I arose, as I thought, a new man, and proceeded steadily and complacently on my unknown way."
12732,"Soon some people, deputed by the magistrates, came to remove the body; the unfortunate being saw a jailor in each he fled precipitately, while I passed onwards to the Castle."
12733,"Sheath your weapons; these are your brothers, commit not fratricide; soon the plague will not leave one for you to glut your revenge upon: will you be more pitiless than pestilence?"
12734,"Searchers after horror haunt strange, far places."
12735,"Frye lit a lantern through force of habit, but knew it would be death to go out into that black farmyard."
12736,"This reflection thawed my congealing blood, and again the tide of life and love flowed impetuously onward, again to ebb as my busy thoughts changed."
12737,"To hear him discussing ways and means was rather ghastly, for at the college we had never procured anatomical specimens ourselves."
12738,"There was a boat lying upon a sea coast, and not far from the boat was a parchment not a paper with a skull depicted upon it."
12739,"My companion looked eagerly from one bed to the other, till at the end of the ward she espied, on a wretched bed, a squalid, haggard creature, writhing under the torture of disease."
12740,"I hain't seed many folks 'long this rud sence they tuk off the Arkham stage."""
12741,"""True,"" said G.; ""and upon this conviction I proceeded."
12742,"""This reading had puzzled me extremely at first, but by degrees I discovered that he uttered many of the same sounds when he read as when he talked."
12743,"And through the window was the street where the golden lights came, and where the shadows danced on houses of marble."
12744,I again nodded my head in assent.
12745,"He pulled the steel like claws from his neck, and would have dragged the beldame over the edge of the gulf had not the claws received a fresh access of strength and closed in again."
12746,"I revolved again and again all that I remembered my mother to have told me of my father's former life; I contemplated the few relics I possessed belonging to him, which spoke of greater refinement than could be found among the mountain cottages; but nothing in all this served as a guide to lead me to another and pleasanter way of life."
12747,"It was seen that Mr. Stapleton was alive, although in a swoon."
12748,"I little expected, in this enlightened and scientific age, to find a disciple of Albertus Magnus and Paracelsus."
12749,"She continued her course along the precipitous sides of the river, when suddenly her foot slipped, and she fell into the rapid stream."
12750,"His wife, bringing his dinner, found him in a half comatose state; but he was conscious enough to warn her off with a sharp cry when he saw her eyes wander toward the notes he had taken."
12751,No tellin' what any o' them Kanakys will chance to git a holt of when the sea bottom throws up some island with ruins older'n the deluge.
12752,"It is now , at night, and we are still going nearly west, at a rapid pace."
12753,"Having opened this drawer to its full extent, a small cushion, and a set of chessmen, fixed in a frame work made to support them perpendicularly, are discovered."
12754,"The perfect confidence that subsisted between Perdita and him, rendered every communication common between them."
12755,"I found it in the glare of mid afternoon, in the clangour of a metropolis, and in the teeming midst of a shabby and commonplace rooming house with a prosaic landlady and two stalwart men by my side."
12756,"He had warned me of something, and I had not heeded but he was a soft headed Rhinelander who went mad at troubles a Prussian could bear with ease."
12757,"It was in devoting his enormous wealth to the embodiment of a vision such as this in the free exercise in the open air ensured by the personal superintendence of his plans in the unceasing object which these plans afforded in the high spirituality of the object in the contempt of ambition which it enabled him truly to feel in the perennial springs with which it gratified, without possibility of satiating, that one master passion of his soul, the thirst for beauty, above all, it was in the sympathy of a woman, not unwomanly, whose loveliness and love enveloped his existence in the purple atmosphere of Paradise, that Ellison thought to find, and found, exemption from the ordinary cares of humanity, with a far greater amount of positive happiness than ever glowed in the rapt day dreams of De Stael."
12758,"De Kock I will thank you to behave yourself"" here interrupted an old lady, who sat next to the speaker."
12759,"For nearly an hour, we busied ourselves, silently without the utterance of a word in endeavors to revive Mr. L l."
12760,"There is no passing muster, however, without Spanish, Italian, German, Latin, and Greek."
12761,"He had cried out in the night, arousing several other artists in the building, and had manifested since then only alternations of unconsciousness and delirium."
12762,"The gyrations of the whirl grew, gradually, less and less violent."
12763,"To tell all my grief I might as well attempt to count the tears that have fallen from these eyes, or every sign that has torn my heart."
12764,"The facade, of immense magnitude, apparently covers a continuous hollow recess; for its windows are many and widely distributed."
12765,"He was the first of Gerrit's descendants to see much of the world; and when he returned in after six years of campaigning, he was hated as an outsider by his father, uncles, and brothers, in spite of his dissimilar Martense eyes."
12766,I could not summon courage to move.
12767,"Does not a stream, boundless as ocean, deep as vacuum, yawn between us?"" Raymond rose, his voice was broken, his features convulsed, his manner calm as the earthquake cradling atmosphere, he replied: ""I am rejoiced that you take my decision so philosophically."
12768,"Of his mind I say nothing, of course."
12769,"Yesterday those limbs were worth an universe; they then enshrined a transcendant power, whose intents, words, and actions were worthy to be recorded in letters of gold; now the superstition of affection alone could give value to the shattered mechanism, which, incapable and clod like, no more resembled Raymond, than the fallen rain is like the former mansion of cloud in which it climbed the highest skies, and gilded by the sun, attracted all eyes, and satiated the sense by its excess of beauty."
12770,"""Wouldn't it answer, Bobby, if I were to leave it at random some time within a year or so, for example?"
12771,"It did not make its appearance during the night and thus for one night at least, since its introduction into the house, I soundly and tranquilly slept; aye, slept even with the burden of murder upon my soul The second and the third day passed, and still my tormentor came not."
12772,"I watched it for some minutes, somewhat in fear, but more in wonder."
12773,Perhaps also my passion was lulled to content by the deep and exclusive affection you felt for me.
12774,"Some trifling business of the House having been gone through, the leaders took their seats in the chamber; the clamour of voices continued, till Ryland arose to speak, and then the slightest whispered observation was audible."
12775,The Duc slips a card.
12776,"""In 'forty six Cap'n Obed took a second wife that nobody in the taown never see some says he didn't want to, but was made to by them as he'd called in had three children by her two as disappeared young, but one gal as looked like anybody else an' was eddicated in Europe."
12777,"""To this horrible mystery there is not as yet, we believe, the slightest clew."""
12778,"With this he had been inspired by Casimir Perier, whose pert little query ""A quoi un poete est il bon?"" he was in the habit of quoting, with a very droll pronunciation, as the ne plus ultra of logical wit."
12779,"Around me were the tombs and the darkness and the shadows; below me, some peril beyond the radius of the human imagination."
12780,"I had sufficient leisure for these and many other reflections during my journey to Ingolstadt, which was long and fatiguing."
12781,"I covered it carefully with dry wood and leaves and placed wet branches upon it; and then, spreading my cloak, I lay on the ground and sank into sleep."
12782,The selected passion of the soul of Raymond was ambition.
12783,"If you have never been at sea in a heavy gale, you can form no idea of the confusion of mind occasioned by the wind and spray together."
12784,The red blood bounded tumultuously through its strict channels.
12785,"Examining the great tree where it had lurked, I could discern no distinctive marks."
12786,But he found that a traveller's life is one that includes much pain amidst its enjoyments.
12787,Such a winking and blinking were never before seen.
12788,"The forest was dressed in green; the young calves frisked on the new sprung grass; the wind winged shadows of light clouds sped over the green cornfields; the hermit cuckoo repeated his monotonous all hail to the season; the nightingale, bird of love and minion of the evening star, filled the woods with song; while Venus lingered in the warm sunset, and the young green of the trees lay in gentle relief along the clear horizon."
12789,"Then, without warning, I saw the intermittent flashes of light on the distant reef."
12790,"You must not shut me from all communion with you: do not tell me why you grieve but only say the words, ""I am unhappy,"" and you will feel relieved as if for some time excluded from all intercourse by some magic spell you should suddenly enter again the pale of human sympathy."
12791,"A lightning rod is ascended without difficulty, especially by a sailor; but, when he had arrived as high as the window, which lay far to his left, his career was stopped; the most that he could accomplish was to reach over so as to obtain a glimpse of the interior of the room."
12792,"The 'soothing system,' you know, was then in operation, and the patients were at large."
12793,"Having rid himself of his ghastly charge, the murderer would have hastened to the city."
12794,"Still, I am innocent, and I will make a clean breast if I die for it."""
12795,My poor sister looked at the counsellor with affright.
12796,"But their ardent Protestantism too ardent, some whispered and their evident distress when virtually driven from the village down the bay, had moved the sympathy of the town fathers."
12797,"Grotesque beyond the imagination of a or a Bulwer, they were damnably human in general outline despite webbed hands and feet, shockingly wide and flabby lips, glassy, bulging eyes, and other features less pleasant to recall."
12798,"Notwithstanding terrifically wide sweep some thirty feet or more and the hissing vigor of its descent, sufficient to sunder these very walls of iron, still the fraying of my robe would be all that, for several minutes, it would accomplish."
12799,"How absurd in these people, then, to persist in putting faith in ""axioms"" as immutable bases of Truth But even out of the mouths of their soundest reasoners it is easy to demonstrate the futility, the impalpability of their axioms in general."
12800,"Were he not a diddler, he would be a maker of patent rat traps or an angler for trout."
12801,"Sorrow doubles the burthen to the bent down back; plants thorns in the unyielding pillow; mingles gall with water; adds saltness to their bitter bread; cloathing them in rags, and strewing ashes on their bare heads."
12802,"Rain had long effaced any possible footprints, though Boston investigators had something to say about evidences of disturbances among the fallen timbers of the Carter place."
12803,"You will see the necessity, I hope, of quitting Oxford at all events, of quitting instantly my chambers."""
12804,"My promise fulfilled, the monster would depart forever."
12805,"Whence, I often asked myself, did the principle of life proceed?"
12806,This policy would have suggested.
12807,"I reflected on this, and by touching the various branches, I discovered the cause and busied myself in collecting a great quantity of wood, that I might dry it and have a plentiful supply of fire."
12808,It was love supreme indescribable.
12809,Adrian leaned against the wall.
12810,"Upon attempting to draw this trunk out from under the bed, they found that, with their united strength there were three of them, all powerful men, they 'could not stir it one inch.'"
12811,Woodville for ever rose in glory; and Elinor become more lovely and wise under the lessons of her accomplished lover.
12812,"Nevertheless, he had his uses, as every thing has, however vile, and taught mankind a lesson which to this day it is in no danger of forgetting never to run directly contrary to the natural analogies."
12813,"I had become arrogant, peevish, and above all suspicious."
12814,"A murmur of approbation followed Elizabeth's simple and powerful appeal, but it was excited by her generous interference, and not in favour of poor Justine, on whom the public indignation was turned with renewed violence, charging her with the blackest ingratitude."
12815,"""You will ask me,"" continued Evadne, ""what I have done since; why I have not applied for succour to the rich Greeks resident here; why I have not returned to my native country?"
12816,"She threw open her window, which looked on the palace garden."
12817,"Sometimes she struggled with her tears, but when she was desired to plead, she collected her powers and spoke in an audible although variable voice."
12818,"""But,"" said I, ""the enigma seems still in as bad a condition as ever."
12819,Of these categories one seemed to him to include objects slightly less illogical and irrelevant in their motions than the members of the other categories.
12820,This occasion we have already stated to occur when the man concealed within brings his body into an erect position upon the closing of the back door. .
12821,"And, even then, my mortal terrors would listen to no reason would accept no consolation."
12822,I was then sure that you reflected upon the diminutive figure of Chantilly.
12823,"So I was silent when the sun set fulgently over the far hills, and Kilderry blazed all red and gold in a flame that seemed a portent."
12824,I prayed them to save even from himself this scion of the noblest family in England.
12825,"When she became a widow, she turned all her thoughts to the educating her son Adrian, second Earl of Windsor, so as to accomplish her ambitious ends; and with his mother's milk he imbibed, and was intended to grow up in the steady purpose of re acquiring his lost crown."
12826,This attack was directed against Raymond and his machinations for the restoration of the monarchy.
12827,"Corroboration will rise upon corroboration, and the murderer will be traced."""
12828,"In time he observed a further mystery the tendency of certain entities to appear suddenly out of empty space, or to disappear totally with equal suddenness."
12829,"""Sir,"" I said, ""it is the Science of Noses."""
12830,Presently his voice was heard in a sort of halloo.
12831,"Then dawn swam dripping and mist wreathed out of the sea, and the buoys tolled solemn in vortices of white aether."
12832,"Poor girl she was barely fifteen, and without this consent, her little amount in the funds was not come at able until five immeasurable summers had ""dragged their slow length along."""
12833,"Chapter ""Some time elapsed before I learned the history of my friends."
12834,"I relied on your innocence, and although I was then very wretched, I was not so miserable as I am now."""
12835,"It is not pleasant to see a stout man suddenly grown thin, and it is even worse when the baggy skin becomes yellowed or greyed, the eyes sunken, circled, and uncannily glowing, the forehead veined and corrugated, and the hands tremulous and twitching."
12836,"We came at last, methought, to the brow of a huge cliff that over hung the sea which, troubled by the winds, dashed against its base at a distance."
12837,"Its ponderous mass, blackened stone, and high dome, made it look, not like a temple, but a tomb."
12838,"I do not know how long I gazed at this sight from the lonely turret window before I dropped suddenly in a dreamless swoon, out of which the high sun of morning aroused me."
12839,"I need scarce tell you, my friend, that, even when you left us, men had agreed to understand those passages in the most holy writings which speak of the final destruction of all things by fire, as having reference to the orb of the earth alone."
12840,"that they existed in a sort of every man for himself confederacy, after the fashion of the ""prairie dogs"" that we read of in fable."
12841,Why am I to give an account of myself?
12842,"""Raymond has prophesied well,"" said Perdita, ""alas, that it should be so our present mode of life cannot continue long, yet I will not be the first to propose alteration."
12843,"Minutely and sagaciously directing the various modes of investment, he bequeathed the aggregate amount to the nearest of blood, bearing the name Ellison, who should be alive at the end of the hundred years."
12844,Even the very lights from the city bewilder him.
12845,"""My dear girl,"" he said, ""I have been to blame; but you must pardon me."
12846,Their number was past guessing.
12847,They had traded the false gods of fear and blind piety for those of licence and anarchy.
12848,"I made no doubt that here was the 'devil's seat' alluded to in the MS., and now I seemed to grasp the full secret of the riddle."
12849,"""And my brother?"" ""Is on deck, Madam."""
12850,"Bringing my telescope to bear upon it, I plainly discerned it to be a British ninety four gun ship, close hauled, and pitching heavily in the sea with her head to the W.S.W."
12851,The general tension was horrible.
12852,"""I can offer you no consolation, my friend,"" said he; ""your disaster is irreparable."
12853,His praises were so many adder's stings infixed in my vulnerable breast.
12854,"In these paintings, which depended from the walls not only in their main surfaces, but in very many nooks which the bizarre architecture of the chateau rendered necessary in these paintings my incipient delirium, perhaps, had caused me to take deep interest; so that I bade Pedro to close the heavy shutters of the room since it was already night to light the tongues of a tall candelabrum which stood by the head of my bed and to throw open far and wide the fringed curtains of black velvet which enveloped the bed itself."
12855,"Among better natures, anguish and dread, the fear of eternal separation, and the awful wonder produced by unprecedented calamity, drew closer the ties of kindred and friendship."
12856,"""Mein Gott, den, vat a vool you bees for dat"" replied one of the most remarkable voices I ever heard."
12857,"While the earth lasts, his actions will be recorded with praise."
12858,"Parks had helped him get the key from the old box containing it, and had felt strangely affected by the grotesque carvings on the box, and by some other odd quality he could not name."
12859,"From Lydia to Neapolis the beauty of their work was praised, and none dared say that the one excelled the other in skill."
12860,"Such a step, he said, would require only two stages; first, a passage out of the three dimensional sphere we know, and second, a passage back to the three dimensional sphere at another point, perhaps one of infinite remoteness."
12861,"But my essay towards bringing her to a saner view of her own situation, did not end here."
12862,"In the former, the torture of meditation was excessive in the latter, supreme."
12863,"From each hearth the familiar cat had vanished; cats large and small, black, grey, striped, yellow, and white."
12864,"Collapsing huddles of gambrel roofs formed a jagged and fantastic skyline, above which rose the ghoulish, decapitated steeple of an ancient church."
12865,"Thenceforward we were enshrouded in patchy darkness, so that we could not have seen an object at twenty paces from the ship."
12866,"It was firmly secured by bands of wrought iron, riveted, and forming a kind of open trelliswork over the whole."
12867,A second reflection was less comforting.
12868,Emicant Trabes quos docos vocant.
12869,"In another instant both body and box were in the sea disappearing suddenly, at once and forever."
12870,"I thought I saw Elizabeth, in the bloom of health, walking in the streets of Ingolstadt."
12871,"While I gazed, this fissure rapidly widened there came a fierce breath of the whirlwind the entire orb of the satellite burst at once upon my sight my brain reeled as I saw the mighty walls rushing asunder there was a long tumultuous shouting sound like the voice of a thousand waters and the deep and dank tarn at my feet closed sullenly and silently over the fragments of the ""House of Usher."""
12872,"These, no doubt, were singular fancies to occupy a man's mind in such extremity and I have often thought since, that the revolutions of the boat around the pool might have rendered me a little light headed."
12873,"To be sure, it has a circulation of ,, and its subscription list has increased one third during the last fortnight, but on the other hand, the sums it disburses, monthly, for contributions, are fearfully great."
12874,"After a short repose I prepared to leave her, that I might endeavour to accomplish her wish."
12875,"We didn't hev them old charms to cut 'em off like folks in the Saouth Sea did, an' them Kanakys wudn't never give away their secrets."
12876,"There were several very large and heavy coins, so worn that we could make nothing of their inscriptions."
12877,"The true poet possessed of very unusual pecuniary resources, might possibly, while retaining the necessary idea of art or interest or culture, so imbue his designs at once with extent and novelty of Beauty, as to convey the sentiment of spiritual interference."
12878,"With riches merely surpassing those of any citizen, it would have been easy to suppose him engaging to supreme excess in the fashionable extravagances of his time or busying himself with political intrigue or aiming at ministerial power or purchasing increase of nobility or collecting large museums of virtu or playing the munificent patron of letters, of science, of art or endowing, and bestowing his name upon extensive institutions of charity."
12879,"Additional grottoes had been found, and the yield of yellow metal was exceedingly great; so that a mighty and heterogeneous army of miners toiled day and night in the numerous passages and rock hollows."
12880,"The time at length arrives when grief is rather an indulgence than a necessity; and the smile that plays upon the lips, although it may be deemed a sacrilege, is not banished."
12881,Each vessel in the mean time brought exhilarating tidings from Greece.
12882,"My sister was struck by my narrative: ""How beyond the imagination of man,"" she exclaimed, ""are the decrees of heaven, wondrous and inexplicable"" ""Foolish girl,"" cried Raymond angrily, ""are you like my valiant soldiers, panic struck?"
12883,"Terms, however, are no object only he must insist upon settling his bill on the first of every month, it is now the second and begs his landlady, when he finally obtains one to his mind, not on any account to forget his instructions upon this point but to send in a bill, and receipt, precisely at ten o'clock, on the first day of every month, and under no circumstances to put it off to the second."
12884,Afterward one sometimes learns that one has been through Dunwich.
12885,"But seated here where I write this in the luxuriously cushioned open piazza of the summit, one can see everything that is going on in all directions."
12886,"Young Galpin, the fiancé in question, had been one of Appleton's most remarkable sons."
12887,It is impossible for you to see the real designer; your instructions must pass through me.
12888,"The squatters said the thing had had only one victim; but in this I judged them inaccurate, since besides the complete skull of a human being, there was another bony fragment which seemed certainly to have belonged to a human skull at some time."
12889,I was up in the cupalo . . .
12890,I thus formed the third of the party.
12891,"Over the bog was a deluge of flaring light, scarlet and sinister, and pouring from the strange olden ruin on the far islet."
12892,"Gad, I wouldn't be alive if I'd ever seen what that man if he was a man saw You recall that Pickman's forte was faces."
12893,"Examined at headquarters after a trip of intense strain and weariness, the prisoners all proved to be men of a very low, mixed blooded, and mentally aberrant type."
12894,"The bottoms and tops of bedposts are employed in the same way."""
12895,"It had been determined for us by Talbot, that, as we were to be up all night, we should make our first stop at C , a village about twenty miles from the city, and there get an early breakfast and some repose, before proceeding upon our route."
12896,"Gilman wondered, too, whether he could trust his instinct to take him back to the right part of space."
12897,"If we traversed a mountain, Greece, a living map, was spread beneath, her renowned pinnacles cleaving the ether; her rivers threading in silver line the fertile land."
12898,"Much that I encountered on the way contributed, I know not how, to heighten the vague sentiments of which I have already spoken."
12899,"I was undisturbed by thoughts which during the preceding year had pressed upon me, notwithstanding my endeavours to throw them off, with an invincible burden."
12900,"If misfortune come against us we must fight with her; we must cast her aside, and still go on to find out that which it is our nature to desire."
12901,"It was so old, he added, that no one now could be expected to recognise it."
12902,"This I ask myself, but ever does there come before me a hideously vivid vision in reply."
12903,There was no chance of hearing anything farther that evening in regard to Brevet Brigadier General John A. B. C. Smith.
12904,"""But as to this thing we've just sent back the Whateleys raised it for a terrible part in the doings that were to come."
12905,"The diddler purchases one or two dozen of these blanks, and every day dips one of them in his soup, makes his dog jump for it, and finally gives it to him as a bonne bouche."
12906,"""The screw consists of an axis of hollow brass tube, eighteen inches in length, through which, upon a semi spiral inclined at fifteen degrees, pass a series of steel wire radii, two feet long, and thus projecting a foot on either side."
12907,There was a curious feeling of unreality attached by him to his foreign life in comparison with the years of his youth.
12908,In all this there was a strangeness that attracted and enchanted me.
12909,"There was a vortex of withering, ice cold wind, and then the rattle of loose bricks and plaster; but I had mercifully fainted before I could learn what it meant."
12910,IS there such a feeling as love at first sight?
12911,"The object of her life was to do him pleasure: it had been so before, but with a difference."
12912,The water increased in transparency.
12913,"I wished sometimes to shake off all thought and feeling, but I learned that there was but one means to overcome the sensation of pain, and that was death a state which I feared yet did not understand."
12914,"Some o' these here critters looks like monkeys, or half monkeys an' half men, but I never heerd o' nothing like this un."""
12915,"I am Basil Elton, keeper of the North Point light that my father and grandfather kept before me."
12916,"West had greedily seized the lifeless thing which had once been his friend and fellow scholar; and I shuddered when he finished severing the head, placed it in his hellish vat of pulpy reptile tissue to preserve it for future experiments, and proceeded to treat the decapitated body on the operating table."
12917,"As might have been expected, spasms and violent headache were the immediate consequences of an experiment so precipitate and full of danger."
12918,"It wasn't the scaly claws nor the mould caked body nor the half hooved feet none of these, though any one of them might well have driven an excitable man to madness."
12919,"As the period fixed for our marriage drew nearer, whether from cowardice or a prophetic feeling, I felt my heart sink within me."
12920,"Despite what I had heard of this hotel in Newburyport, I signed the register, paid my dollar, let the clerk take my valise, and followed that sour, solitary attendant up three creaking flights of stairs past dusty corridors which seemed wholly devoid of life."
12921,"I sat with Perdita and soothed her, by my seeming assent to her wild scheme."
12922,and does he not delight singly in such efforts as manifest his love to all?
12923,"I listened quietly, and when he paused would again pour out my misery in expressions that shewed how far too deep my wounds were for any cure."
12924,I am not even yet willing to say whether what followed was a hideous actuality or only a nightmare hallucination.
12925,"""You travelled to seek happiness, but a fatality seems to pursue you."
12926,"""What if some little payne the passage have That makes frayle flesh to fear the bitter wave?"
12927,"Nothing has been distorted or concealed, and if anything remains vague, it is only because of the dark cloud which has come over my mind that cloud and the nebulous nature of the horrors which brought it upon me."
12928,claws and teeth sharpened on centuries of corpses . . .
12929,"Then they looked oddly at me, and said that they seemed to remember weird sounds, too."
12930,"I was born for something greater than I was and greater I would become; but greatness, at least to my distorted perceptions, was no necessary associate of goodness, and my wild thoughts were unchecked by moral considerations when they rioted in dreams of distinction."
12931,"I saw, indeed, that they were his, but I shook as if with a fit of the ague in fancying they were not."
12932,"Seems that human folks has got a kind o' relation to sech water beasts that everything alive come aout o' the water onct, an' only needs a little change to go back agin."
12933,"The whole page was blotted with fresh tears; and, upon the opposite interleaf, were the following English lines, written in a hand so very different from the peculiar characters of my acquaintance, that I had some difficulty in recognising it as his own: Thou wast that all to me, love, For which my soul did pine A green isle in the sea, love, A fountain and a shrine, All wreathed with fairy fruits and flowers; And all the flowers were mine."
12934,"Weak minded, and beset with constitutional infirmities akin to my own, my parents could do but little to check the evil propensities which distinguished me."
12935,"About two o'clock the mist cleared away, and we beheld, stretched out in every direction, vast and irregular plains of ice, which seemed to have no end."
12936,I established myself at his bedside; I never quitted it day or night.
12937,"His business is retail, for cash, or approved paper at sight."
12938,"We became ephemera, to whom the interval between the rising and setting sun was as a long drawn year of common time."
12939,"On returning home, the captain of the steam packet with whom I had agreed to sail, came to tell me, that accidental circumstances hastened his departure, and that, if I went with him, I must come on board at five on the following morning."
12940,"I was struck by his exceeding beauty, and as he spoke to thank me the sweet but melancholy cadence of his voice brought tears into my eyes."
12941,He had written infamous things.
12942,At eleven years of age Diana was his favourite playmate but he already talked the language of love.
12943,"Out of that dream came rescue the Vigilant, the vice admiralty court, the streets of Dunedin, and the long voyage back home to the old house by the Egeberg."
12944,"After dinner, however, when you have sufficiently recovered from the fatigue of your ride, I will be happy to take you over the house, and introduce to you a system which, in my opinion, and in that of every one who has witnessed its operation, is incomparably the most effectual as yet devised."""
12945,"As he went on I felt as if my soul were grappling with a palpable enemy; one by one the various keys were touched which formed the mechanism of my being; chord after chord was sounded, and soon my mind was filled with one thought, one conception, one purpose."
12946,She was warmly attached to the child who is now dead and acted towards him like a most affectionate mother.
12947,"This done, you have only to stroll along, with the mill on your back, until you see tanbark in the street, and a knocker wrapped up in buckskin."
12948,"Moreover, near neighbors are seldom friends; and the inhabitants of the Castle Berlifitzing might look, from their lofty buttresses, into the very windows of the palace Metzengerstein."
12949,Our dainty fare was often exchanged for blows and imprisonment.
12950,"I thought at length that he comprehended my design but, whether this was the case or not, he shook his head despairingly, and refused to move from his station by the ring bolt."
12951,"Though hardly eager, they obeyed; and a deep boring was made."
12952,"Ye who are linked by the affectionate ties of nature, companions, friends, lovers fathers, who toil with joy for their offspring; women, who while gazing on the living forms of their children, forget the pains of maternity; children, who neither toil nor spin, but love and are loved ""Oh, that death and sickness were banished from our earthly home that hatred, tyranny, and fear could no longer make their lair in the human heart that each man might find a brother in his fellow, and a nest of repose amid the wide plains of his inheritance that the source of tears were dry, and that lips might no longer form expressions of sorrow."
12953,"I gave the right place to every personage in the groupe, the just balance to every sentiment."
12954,"The policy of insurance for my dwelling house had expired the day before; and, some dispute having arisen, it was agreed that, at six, I should meet the board of directors of the company and settle the terms of a renewal."
12955,"When noises came from it, they whispered and shivered; and hoped that the lock on that attic door was strong."
12956,"The ballots had been thrown; they were all black, and Justine was condemned."
12957,"Over and over again through those aeons I whispered and muttered, called, shouted, and screamed, ""Warren Warren Answer me are you there?"""
12958,"My object is simply, in the first place, to say a few words of Von Kempelen himself with whom, some years ago, I had the honor of a slight personal acquaintance, since every thing which concerns him must necessarily, at this moment, be of interest; and, in the second place, to look in a general way, and speculatively, at the results of the discovery."
12959,"But a new and fearful object soon rivetted the attention of the multitude, and proved how much more intense is the excitement wrought in the feelings of a crowd by the contemplation of human agony, than that brought about by the most appalling spectacles of inanimate matter."
12960,"My letter was returned by that footman, with the following endorsement in pencil."
12961,"He had bought it, he said, with danger, and paid for it with toil."
12962,"Through some unprecedented volcanic upheaval, a portion of the ocean floor must have been thrown to the surface, exposing regions which for innumerable millions of years had lain hidden under unfathomable watery depths."
12963,"""I'll never get the picture out of my head as long as I live."
12964,"Filled with despair, and still inflamed by the memory of a profound attachment, the lover journeys from the capital to the remote province in which the village lies, with the romantic purpose of disinterring the corpse, and possessing himself of its luxuriant tresses."
12965,It is equally unredressed when the avenger fails to make himself felt as such to him who has done the wrong.
12966,"Studying the grocery youth's map and seeking a route I had not traversed before, I chose Marsh Street instead of State for my approach to Town Square."
12967,"Even at this early age, he was deep read and imbued with the spirit of high philosophy."
12968,"There were some trivial arrangements afterwards, to be sure; but these formed no portion of the plan."
12969,And at the baptismal font I hesitated for a name.
12970,"One finds it difficult, too, to conceive the vast masses which these people handle so easily, to be as light as our own reason tells us they actually are."
12971,"I observed that these bottles had labels about their necks, and that these labels were inscribed ""Kirschenwasser."""
12972,Presently he realised what he was listening for the hellish chant of the celebrants in the distant black valley.
12973,To do do medium size................. AUG. .
12974,In the summer it would be nearly overhead.
12975,The beatings of my human heart drew me back to blank reality.
12976,"I will hint only hint that he had designs which involved the rulership of the visible universe and more; designs whereby the earth and the stars would move at his command, and the destinies of all living things be his."
12977,"As he did this he further demonstrated his eccentricity by casting a startled glance toward the lone curtained window, as if fearful of some intruder a glance doubly absurd, since the garret stood high and inaccessible above all the adjacent roofs, this window being the only point on the steep street, as the concierge had told me, from which one could see over the wall at the summit."
12978,"Yet although the external abbey, with its verdant decay hanging about it, suffered but little alteration, I gave way, with a child like perversity, and perchance with a faint hope of alleviating my sorrows, to a display of more than regal magnificence within."
12979,Pestilence then made a pause in her death dealing career.
12980,"The result of this well conceived plan, however, the success of which would have saved me much trouble in after life, served to convince me that some editors are not to be bamboozled, and gave the coup de grace as they say in France, to my nascent hopes, as they say in the city of the transcendentals."
12981,"Singular to relate, it was once much admired as an article of female dress Balloons were also very generally constructed from it."
12982,"I lay down in the bottom of the car, and endeavored to collect my faculties."
12983,"With the passage of time Klenze and I decided that we were still drifting south, meanwhile sinking deeper and deeper."
12984,"Poor old soul to what pitiful depths of hallucination had his liquor, plus his hatred of the decay, alienage, and disease around him, brought that fertile, imaginative brain He began to moan now, and tears were coursing down his channelled cheeks into the depths of his beard."
12985,"The president, however, was the first to recover his composure, and at length, turning to Legs with great dignity, recommenced: ""Most willingly will we gratify any reasonable curiosity on the part of guests so illustrious, unbidden though they be."
12986,The legend here seemed to present three variants.
12987,"""And you escaped?"" ""No, but I recovered."""
12988,"Above the crowded bookshelves at intervals along the walls were well wrought family portraits; all tarnished to an enigmatical dimness, and bearing an unmistakable likeness to the man who now motioned me to a chair beside the graceful Chippendale table."
12989,I do not remember many particulars you can imagine my state of mind but it is a vicious lie to say it was Herbert West's body which I put into the incinerator.
12990,"I could perceive that, when I recalled my sister's thoughts to her duties in life, she did not listen with the same patience as before."
12991,"The year must have been in the late republic, for the province was still ruled by a senatorial proconsul instead of a prætorian legate of Augustus, and the day was the first before the Kalends of November."
12992,"A cadaverousness of complexion; an eye large, liquid, and luminous beyond comparison; lips somewhat thin and very pallid, but of a surpassingly beautiful curve; a nose of a delicate Hebrew model, but with a breadth of nostril unusual in similar formations; a finely moulded chin, speaking, in its want of prominence, of a want of moral energy; hair of a more than web like softness and tenuity; these features, with an inordinate expansion above the regions of the temple, made up altogether a countenance not easily to be forgotten."
12993,But in this I am a coward.
12994,"The editor says: ""Now, then, a change comes over the matter."
12995,During the whole of this wretched mockery of justice I suffered living torture.
12996,"He had chosen the place for purely symbolic and fantastically aesthetic reasons, since most of the interments were of the colonial period and therefore of little use to a scientist seeking very fresh bodies."
12997,His last words I distinctly remember.
12998,"So, too, when the noon of the second day came, I was not unconscious of those movements which displaced you from my side, which confined me within the coffin, which deposited me within the hearse, which bore me to the grave, which lowered me within it, which heaped heavily the mould upon me, and which thus left me, in blackness and corruption, to my sad and solemn slumbers with the worm."
12999,"The chance for throwing sixes seems to be precisely as it was at any ordinary time that is to say, subject only to the influence of the various other throws which may be made by the dice."
13000,"Though one might well imagine that my first sensation would be of wonder at so prodigious and unexpected a transformation of scenery, I was in reality more horrified than astonished; for there was in the air and in the rotting soil a sinister quality which chilled me to the very core."
13001,"She did not appear to understand him, but smiled."
13002,O wherefore are love and ruin for ever joined in this our mortal dream?
13003,"Our player confines himself not at all; nor, because the game is the object, does he reject deductions from things external to the game."
13004,"Through the impediments afforded by the number, complexity, and substantiality of the laws of organic life and matter, the violation of law is rendered, to a certain extent, practicable."
13005,"Sometimes, when nature, overcome by hunger, sank under the exhaustion, a repast was prepared for me in the desert that restored and inspirited me."
13006,"As the trial had proceeded, her countenance had altered."
13007,"To that last hour of all, there hung a cloud of intense gloom and devout sorrow over your household."
13008,She was evidently a lady of breeding.
13009,She had not confided in me; I could not demand an explanation from Raymond without the hazard of betraying what was perhaps her most treasured secret.
13010,"""Four letters beyond the word 'degree,' we perceive the combination ;;."
13011,"I was glad, for although I disliked to see the moss and the heather and the little streams and lakes depart, I had a growing wish to discern the ancient secrets the deep matted peat might hide."
13012,"""Hum hoo dat's good why dare aint no eye lef at all."" ""Curse your stupidity do you know your right hand from your left?"" ""Yes, I nose dat nose all bout dat tis my lef hand what I chops de wood wid."" ""To be sure you are left handed; and your left eye is on the same side as your left hand."
13013,"But that country had so many resources in the way of agriculture, that the rush of population from one part of it to another, and its increase through foreign emigration, was less felt than with us."
13014,"We removed every carpet, and examined the boards with the microscope."""
13015,"The proposition, in this form, will be admitted at once by those who love the lyre for its own sake, and for its spiritual uses."
13016,"Davis, an old time village practitioner, had of course seen both at the respective funerals, as indeed he had attended both Fenner and Sawyer in their last illnesses."
13017,"At the last moment I will enclose the MS. in a bottle, and cast it within the sea."
13018,"The folding doors remain shut, and the drawer is returned empty."
13019,"No matter: I do not wish to plead my cause before any of them, not even before your Lordship, had you not first discovered me."
13020,"""I could mention innumerable instances which, although slight, marked the dispositions of these amiable cottagers."
13021,"I had told them that I should not return until the morning, and had given them explicit orders not to stir from the house."
13022,"On the fourteenth this had greatly diminished; on the fifteenth a still more remarkable decrease was observable; and, on retiring on the night of the sixteenth, I had noticed an angle of no more than about seven degrees and fifteen minutes."
13023,"The plague at Athens had been preceded and caused by the contagion from the East; and the scene of havoc and death continued to be acted there, on a scale of fearful magnitude."
13024,I now tell you that I heard her first feeble movements in the hollow coffin.
13025,"At first content to view the scene as an all observant uncorporeal presence, I now desired to define my relation to it, and to speak my mind amongst the grave men who conversed each day in the public squares."
13026,It flies it disappears we are free.
13027,"But why, Agathos, do you weep and why, oh why do your wings droop as we hover above this fair star which is the greenest and yet most terrible of all we have encountered in our flight?"
13028,"The idea of its being gold never entered their brains, of course; how could such a wild fancy have entered it?"
13029,"Hei Hei At last In the dim light I behold the gods of earth"" And now Atal, slipping dizzily up over inconceivable steeps, heard in the dark a loathsome laughing, mixed with such a cry as no man else ever heard save in the Phlegethon of unrelatable nightmares; a cry wherein reverberated the horror and anguish of a haunted lifetime packed into one atrocious moment: ""The other gods The other gods The gods of the outer hells that guard the feeble gods of earth . . ."
13030,"""That refinery, though, used to be a big thing, and Old Man Marsh, who owns it, must be richer'n Croesus."
13031,"Believe me, I will never desert life untill this last hope is torn from my bosom, that in some way my labours may form a link in the chain of gold with which we ought all to strive to drag Happiness from where she sits enthroned above the clouds, now far beyond our reach, to inhabit the earth with us."
13032,"Someone might easily be looking, and possible Eliot Street stragglers could not fail to glimpse me from either of two points."
13033,"""There is no exquisite beauty,"" says Bacon, Lord Verulam, speaking truly of all the forms and genera of beauty, ""without some strangeness in the proportion."""
13034,"""Diamond like,"" also, was scarcely, it will be admitted, of sufficient intensity to express what the ""Mole"" evidently thought of the brilliancy of the ""Oil of Bob."""
13035,"His money and lands were gone, and he did not care for the ways of people about him, but preferred to dream and write of his dreams."
13036,"THE ""Red Death"" had long devastated the country."
13037,"Then he thought he heerd another faint like saound over towards Wizard Whateley's a kinder rippin' or tearin' o' wood, like some big box er crate was bein' opened fur off."
13038,"""Why, yes; and not exactly that, either."
13039,"""Humph"" resumed the voice, as I continued my survey, ""you mus pe so dronk as de pig, den, for not zee me as I zit here at your zide."""
13040,"Most of the night she spent here watching; towards morning she believed that she slept for a few minutes; some steps disturbed her, and she awoke."
13041,"""Nevertheless, I will try it,"" said my companion; ""it may lead to the real cavern."
13042,"Some erect and manly spirits still remained, pillars of state; but the word republic had grown stale to the vulgar ear; and many the event would prove whether it was a majority pined for the tinsel and show of royalty."
13043,"He had not known until our hallway conversation that I could overhear his playing in my room, and now asked me if I would arrange with Blandot to take a lower room where I could not hear him in the night."
13044,"'This fir tree,' I found myself at one time saying, 'will certainly be the next thing that takes the awful plunge and disappears,' and then I was disappointed to find that the wreck of a Dutch merchant ship overtook it and went down before."
13045,"I presume you have at last made up your mind that there is no such thing as overreaching the Minister?"""
13046,"I did not wish to refuse them; but in my heart of hearts, I made a vow to devote life, knowledge, and power, all of which, in as much as they were of any value, he had bestowed on me all, all my capacities and hopes, to him alone I would devote."
13047,"The ""Owl,"" a journal of profound sagacity, and well known for the deliberate gravity of its literary decisions the ""Owl,"" I say, spoke as follows: ""'The Lollipop' The October number of this delicious Magazine surpasses its predecessors, and sets competition at defiance."
13048,"Having parted from my friend, I determined to visit some remote spot of Scotland and finish my work in solitude."
13049,"Please to examine, at your leisure, the inner linings of the cuff of his left sleeve, and the several little packages which may be found in the somewhat capacious pockets of his embroidered morning wrapper."""
13050,"From some peculiar circumstances attending the administration of his father, the young Baron, at the decease of the former, entered immediately upon his vast possessions."
13051,"I wish you could have seen him, sir,"" here the speaker addressed myself ""it would have done your heart good to see the natural airs that he put on."
13052,"Raymond and I made a part of the concert, and Adrian and Perdita were devout listeners."
13053,"Although the real interest of my narration is now ended and I ought quickly to wind up its melancholy catastrophe, yet I will relate one instance of my sad suspicion and despair and how Woodville with the goodness and almost the power of an angel, softened my rugged feelings and led me back to gentleness."
13054,"There were no widespread tales of rattling chains, cold currents of air, extinguished lights, or faces at the window."
13055,"Strange as it may appear, the third week from the discovery of the body had passed, and passed without any light being thrown upon the subject, before even a rumor of the events which had so agitated the public mind, reached the ears of Dupin and myself."
13056,"For my own part, I intend to believe nothing henceforward that has anything of the 'singular' about it."""
13057,"He, the Fly, was very little better than he should be."
13058,"Now, the power of elevation lies altogether in the superior lightness of the gas in the balloon compared with the atmospheric air; and, at first sight, it does not appear probable that, as the balloon acquires altitude, and consequently arrives successively in atmospheric strata of densities rapidly diminishing I say, it does not appear at all reasonable that, in this its progress upwards, the original velocity should be accelerated."
13059,"The keepers, ten in number, having been suddenly overpowered, were first well tarred, then carefully feathered, and then shut up in underground cells."
13060,Sheets of music were piled in disorder about the floor.
13061,Them things never died excep' they was kilt violent.
13062,"Nearly the whole sum mentioned by Monsieur Mignaud, the banker, was discovered, in bags, upon the floor."
13063,"Here was indeed the triumph of all things heavenly the magnificent turn of the short upper lip the soft, voluptuous slumber of the under the dimples which sported, and the color which spoke the teeth glancing back, with a brilliancy almost startling, every ray of the holy light which fell upon them in her serene and placid, yet most exultingly radiant of all smiles."
13064,"Yet it is not wonderful that these conceptions are indefinite, since they have their origin in sources so utterly novel."
13065,These brushes were passed up and down every flue in the house.
13066,He certainly seemed young and he made a point of speaking about his youth yet there were moments when I should have had little trouble in imagining him a hundred years of age.
13067,"""As I read, however, I applied much personally to my own feelings and condition."
13068,"The fact is, we have all been a good deal puzzled because the affair is so simple, and yet baffles us altogether."""
13069,"The propeller was kept in constant operation, and, no doubt, aided our progress materially."
13070,"Notwithstanding my lawless habits, my disposition was sociable, hers recluse."
13071,"Meantime the machine rapidly soared, while my strength even more rapidly failed."
13072,His operations are upon a small scale.
13073,"I prayed for death, and, in the agony of the moment, could not help repeating those exquisite verses of the poet Miguel De Cervantes: Vanny Buren, tan escondida Query no te senty venny Pork and pleasure, delly morry Nommy, torny, darry, widdy But now a new horror presented itself, and one indeed sufficient to startle the strongest nerves."
13074,"""Ebber so fur,"" replied the negro; ""can see de sky fru de top ob de tree."""
13075,"After a succession of these, which our resolution alone permitted us to surmount, we arrived at a wide cavern with an arched dome like roof."
13076,"The Jermyns never seemed to look quite right something was amiss, though Arthur was the worst, and the old family portraits in Jermyn House shewed fine faces enough before Sir Wade's time."
13077,So far I had seen none of the lower animals in Innsmouth.
13078,"""Scarcely, however, had I attained the height of fifty yards, when, roaring and rumbling up after me in the most horrible and tumultuous manner, came so dense a hurricane of fire, and smoke, and sulphur, and legs and arms, and gravel, and burning wood, and blazing metal, that my very heart sunk within me, and I fell down in the bottom of the car, trembling with unmitigated terror."
13079,My father was in the meantime overjoyed and in the bustle of preparation only recognized in the melancholy of his niece the diffidence of a bride.
13080,"I seized him; when, in his fright at my violence, he inflicted a slight wound upon my hand with his teeth."
13081,"Apart, however, from the inevitable conclusion, a priori that such causes must produce such effects that the well known occurrence of such cases of suspended animation must naturally give rise, now and then, to premature interments apart from this consideration, we have the direct testimony of medical and ordinary experience to prove that a vast number of such interments have actually taken place."
13082,"To use a sporting phrase, I had not been once 'at fault.'"
13083,The northern breeze as it refreshed me was sweeter and more balmy for it seemed to carry some of your spirit along with it.
13084,"I, who have so disinterested an affection for you, may increase your miseries tenfold by being an obstacle to your wishes."
13085,"Aghast, I turned to examine the charred and shrivelled figure on the floor."
13086,"He was certainly near the boundary between the known universe and the fourth dimension, and who could say how much farther he might go?"
13087,"This was forty feet long, and spanned the interval between shore and shore with a slight but very perceptible arch, preventing all oscillation."
13088,"I have reared a marble urn to his memory in St. John's churchyard the place that loved the hidden grove of giant willows on the hill, where tombs and headstones huddle quietly between the hoary bulk of the church and the houses and bank walls of Benefit Street."
13089,The older matters which had made the sculptor's dream and bas relief so significant to my uncle formed the subject of the second half of his long manuscript.
13090,"Yet when I looked from that highest of all gable windows, looked while the candles sputtered and the insane viol howled with the night wind, I saw no city spread below, and no friendly lights gleaming from remembered streets, but only the blackness of space illimitable; unimagined space alive with motion and music, and having no semblance to anything on earth."
13091,"""The apartment was in the wildest disorder the furniture broken and thrown about in all directions."
13092,"My rage is unspeakable when I reflect that the murderer, whom I have turned loose upon society, still exists."
13093,"If I do, swear to me, Walton, that he shall not escape, that you will seek him and satisfy my vengeance in his death."
13094,"""One night during my accustomed visit to the neighbouring wood where I collected my own food and brought home firing for my protectors, I found on the ground a leathern portmanteau containing several articles of dress and some books."
13095,"We were set down at St. Bartholomew's, and entered the wretched precincts of the house of disease."
13096,We shall find these means multiplying and gathering distinctness as we proceed.
13097,In fact I was even more startled than I would have been willing to express.
13098,"I hope that no one else will accomplish this piecing out; certainly, if I live, I shall never knowingly supply a link in so hideous a chain."
13099,"O, for some medicinal vial to purge unwholesome nature, and bring back the earth to its accustomed health Ryland was a man of strong intellects and quick and sound decision in the usual course of things, but he stood aghast at the multitude of evils that gathered round us."
13100,Hereafter this will be the cynosure of Greece.
13101,"I was perplexed, and most anxious to know what this portended; ah, what could it portend but ruin I saw little of my father during this interval, but he appeared calmer although not less unhappy than before."
13102,The untaught peasant beheld the elements around him and was acquainted with their practical uses.
13103,Have we lost the power of rendering you happy?
13104,"Glendinning had been represented to my eager inquiries as immeasurably wealthy; and the sums which he had as yet lost, although in themselves vast, could not, I supposed, very seriously annoy, much less so violently affect him."
13105,"They seemed to be screams of some person or persons in great agony were loud and drawn out, not short and quick."
13106,"This extraordinary behavior, by throwing me into a perfect fever of excitement into an absolute delirium of love served rather to embolden than to disconcert me."
13107,"He was not, as the other traveller seemed to be, a savage inhabitant of some undiscovered island, but a European."
13108,"Most of its earlier length was uncomfortably visible from the Rowley road, and from high places in the town itself; but one could perhaps crawl inconspicuously through the undergrowth."
13109,"On the lid were painted the words ""Mrs."
13110,Your summits are clear; the sky and lake are blue and placid.
13111,"At length, looking under the bed, they saw a large, common hair trunk, without hinges, hasp, or lock, and with the top lying carelessly across the bottom portion."
13112,But he regarded me piteously with his large eyes and sighed.
13113,"After a few months, therefore, of weary and aimless wandering, I purchased, and put in some repair, an abbey, which I shall not name, in one of the wildest and least frequented portions of fair England."
13114,Will you confer upon me the favor of taking charge of this pocket book I know I can trust you and of advertising it?
13115,"As the steps and the passage grew broader, I heard another sound, the thin, whining mockery of a feeble flute; and suddenly there spread out before me the boundless vista of an inner world a vast fungous shore litten by a belching column of sick greenish flame and washed by a wide oily river that flowed from abysses frightful and unsuspected to join the blackest gulfs of immemorial ocean."
13116,"She communicated her gaiety to us, and as we amused ourselves on the Castle Terrace, it appeared that a happier, less care worn party could not have been assembled."
13117,The throat had evidently been cut with some very sharp instrument probably with a razor.
13118,Shall I respect man when he condemns me?
13119,"His motions and even his vocal sounds shewed a restraint and deliberateness highly peculiar in an infant, and no one was really unprepared when, at seven months, he began to walk unassisted, with falterings which another month was sufficient to remove."
13120,"It is told that in the immemorial years when the world was young, before ever the men of Sarnath came to the land of Mnar, another city stood beside the lake; the grey stone city of Ib, which was old as the lake itself, and peopled with beings not pleasing to behold."
13121,"There was much in the Essex County records about Keziah Mason's trial, and what she had admitted under pressure to the Court of Oyer and Terminer had fascinated Gilman beyond all reason."
13122,"""That the voices heard in contention,"" he said, ""by the party upon the stairs, were not the voices of the women themselves, was fully proved by the evidence."
13123,"Upon the bed, before that whole company, there lay a nearly liquid mass of loathsome of detestable putridity."
13124,He can have no idea of the wonder of a pirouette.
13125,"I dream of a day when they may rise above the billows to drag down in their reeking talons the remnants of puny, war exhausted mankind of a day when the land shall sink, and the dark ocean floor shall ascend amidst universal pandemonium."
13126,I hate the moon I am afraid of it for when it shines on certain scenes familiar and loved it sometimes makes them unfamiliar and hideous.
13127,"On the last day, two candidates only were allowed to remain; and to obviate, if possible, the last struggle between these, a bribe was offered to him who should voluntarily resign his pretensions; a place of great emolument and honour was given him, and his success facilitated at a future election."
13128,I had not counted in vain upon their voracity.
13129,"And what is each human being worth, if he do not put forth his strength to aid his fellow creatures?"
13130,"When one came to think of it, it was generally only rather young people who were seen about in public, and of these the oldest were apt to be the most tainted looking."
13131,"Though well above the middle stature, and of somewhat brawny frame, he was given an absurd appearance of harmless stupidity by the pale, sleepy blueness of his small watery eyes, the scantiness of his neglected and never shaven growth of yellow beard, and the listless drooping of his heavy nether lip."
13132,"It gave forth no noise when shaken, but was mystic with the scent of unremembered spices."
13133,"""My sweetest Eugenie,"" I cried, ""what is all this about which you are discoursing?"
13134,Often I ask myself if it could not all have been a pure phantasm a mere freak of fever as I lay sun stricken and raving in the open boat after my escape from the German man of war.
13135,"The floors are of square tiles, the chairs and tables of black looking wood with thin crooked legs and puppy feet."
13136,"She did him justice; she believed that he felt a tender affection for her; but give a paltry prize to him who in some life pending lottery has calculated on the possession of tens of thousands, and it will disappoint him more than a blank."
13137,"By this time Pickman had lighted a lamp in an adjoining room and was politely holding open the door for me; asking me if I would care to see his ""modern studies""."
13138,"""You remember that when I went to the table, for the purpose of making a sketch of the beetle, I found no paper where it was usually kept."
13139,With the breaking of morning I was accoutred for my ride.
13140,For long years these are the first days of peace that have visited me.
13141,"Such hope as theirs, we also may entertain Old fable tells us, that this gentle spirit sprung from the box of Pandora, else crammed with evils; but these were unseen and null, while all admired the inspiriting loveliness of young Hope; each man's heart became her home; she was enthroned sovereign of our lives, here and here after; she was deified and worshipped, declared incorruptible and everlasting."
13142,"There were much glare and glitter and piquancy and phantasm much of what has been since seen in ""Hernani."""
13143,Heretofore a recluse so far as I know his true name and origin never having passed his lips my friend now became frantic in his fear of solitude.
13144,"Either the fool could not, or the villain would not perceive me."
13145,"Reference to this object, the doctor added, was invariably a prelude to the young man's subsidence into lethargy."
13146,"It was now nearly if not altogether daylight; and, as I gazed, enraptured, at the angel by my side, the singular idea came, all at once, into my head, that this was really the very first moment since my acquaintance with the celebrated loveliness of Madame Lalande, that I had enjoyed a near inspection of that loveliness by daylight at all."
13147,"I knelt on the grass and kissed the earth and with quivering lips exclaimed, ""By the sacred earth on which I kneel, by the shades that wander near me, by the deep and eternal grief that I feel, I swear; and by thee, O Night, and the spirits that preside over thee, to pursue the daemon who caused this misery, until he or I shall perish in mortal conflict."
13148,"At one time, however, I thought myself sure of my prize, having, in rummaging a dressing case, accidentally demolished a bottle of Grandjean's Oil of Archangels which, as an agreeable perfume, I here take the liberty of recommending."
13149,"As my uncle went, as poor Johansen went, so I shall go."
13150,"Wretched beings crawled to die under our succouring roof; the inhabitants of the Castle decreased daily, while the survivors huddled together in fear, and, as in a famine struck boat, the sport of the wild, interminable waves, each looked in the other's face, to guess on whom the death lot would next fall."
13151,"During the pathetic appeal with which it concludes, a stifled sob attracted our attention to Perdita, the cessation of the music recalled her to herself, she hastened out of the hall I followed her."
13152,"Evil habits, dating from a first drink taken years before in woodland seclusion, made themselves manifest in the young professor; and only by a hurried resignation did he escape a nasty prosecution for injury to the habits and morals of the pupils under his charge."
13153,"And when, on the morrow, she presented Elizabeth to me as her promised gift, I, with childish seriousness, interpreted her words literally and looked upon Elizabeth as mine mine to protect, love, and cherish."
13154,In this manner it is necessary that the exhibiter should often pass from one table to the other.
13155,Always the same the night before the Kalends of Maius and the night before the Kalends of November.
13156,"Upon my calling at Mr. B.'s, and making known to him the wishes of the society, he received me with great civility, took me into his study, and gave me a clear explanation of the whole process."
13157,"The attempts to account for the phenomenon some of which, I remember, seemed to me sufficiently plausible in perusal now wore a very different and unsatisfactory aspect."
13158,"Since most of my ancestors had been seized some little while before they reached the exact age of Comte Henri at his end, I was every moment on the watch for the coming of the unknown death."
13159,A well defined shock separates my final impression of the fading scene of light from my sudden and somewhat shamefaced awakening and straightening up in my chair as I saw the dying figure on the couch move hesitantly.
13160,"I could not imagine a more graceful curve than that of the os femoris, and there was just that due gentle prominence in the rear of the fibula which goes to the conformation of a properly proportioned calf."
13161,"I could hardly believe that so great a good fortune could have befallen me, but when I became assured that my enemy had indeed fled, I clapped my hands for joy and ran down to Clerval."
13162,"His name as Protector was the burthen of every tongue; his achievements, projects, and magnificence, the argument of every story."
13163,"At day break I hastened to the woods; the hours past on while I indulged in wild dreams that gave wings to the slothful steps of time, and beguiled my eager impatience."
13164,"I read merely to understand their meaning, and they well repaid my labours."
13165,"Then silently and gracefully the naiads reached the water and melted one by one into the ancient bog; while the line of followers, never checking their speed, splashed awkwardly after them and vanished amidst a tiny vortex of unwholesome bubbles which I could barely see in the scarlet light."
13166,"The sameness of his days no longer gives him sorrow, and well disciplined thoughts have grown enough for his imagination."
13167,"It was not the portrait of one whom an underworld denizen would be likely to know, but of a lady of breeding and quality, garbed in the quaint attire of thirty years before."
13168,And have I not told you that what you mistake for madness is but over acuteness of the sense?
13169,Of course it was in the rear of the house.
13170,"One morning, in cool blood, I slipped a noose about its neck and hung it to the limb of a tree; hung it with the tears streaming from my eyes, and with the bitterest remorse at my heart; hung it because I knew that it had loved me, and because I felt it had given me no reason of offence; hung it because I knew that in so doing I was committing a sin a deadly sin that would so jeopardize my immortal soul as to place it if such a thing wore possible even beyond the reach of the infinite mercy of the Most Merciful and Most Terrible God."
13171,He could not tell they would think him mad.
13172,"This we at last accomplished but we were still unable to do any thing at the pumps; and, in the meantime, the leak gained on us very fast."
13173,"Your yelling stirred them up, I fancy."
13174,"Not because the way was smooth and placid as a southern sea, but because it was full of dangers and terror, because at every new incident your fortitude was to be called forth and your courage exhibited, because danger and death surrounded it, and these you were to brave and overcome."
13175,"Alas my companion did, and I was precipitated in his fall."
13176,"I designed to imply that the deductions are the sole proper ones, and that the suspicion arises inevitably from them as the single result."
13177,"This young gentleman was remarkable in every respect, and excited in me a profound interest and curiosity."
13178,"When night came again I found, with pleasure, that the fire gave light as well as heat and that the discovery of this element was useful to me in my food, for I found some of the offals that the travellers had left had been roasted, and tasted much more savoury than the berries I gathered from the trees."
13179,"""In the sides of the covering thus adjusted round the car, had been inserted three circular panes of thick but clear glass, through which I could see without difficulty around me in every horizontal direction."
13180,"His coat tail is very far longer his pipe, his shoe buckles, his eyes, and his stomach, very far bigger than those of any other old gentleman in the village; and as to his chin, it is not only double, but triple."
13181,"The old man would not live up to his aspect and manner, but would feign a smile and a light tone and prattle feverishly and frantically of cheerful trifles; his voice every moment rising and thickening till at last it would split in a piping and incoherent falsetto."
13182,"Sailing for London, I reëmbarked at once for the Norwegian capital; and one autumn day landed at the trim wharves in the shadow of the Egeberg."
13183,"He had been taken there by the bubble congeries and the little polyhedron which always dogged him; but they, like himself, had changed to wisps of milky, barely luminous mist in this farther void of ultimate blackness."
13184,"Their life was exceedingly secluded, and people declared that their isolation had made them heavy of speech and comprehension."
13185,"That the danger to the town and inhabitants of Pompelo was a real one, I could not from my studies doubt."
13186,"Only the sombre philosophy of the Decadents could hold us, and this we found potent only by increasing gradually the depth and diabolism of our penetrations."
13187,"Their brotherly love was well known, and the crafty Tyrant surmised that each, instead of concealing his work from the other, would offer aid and advice; this charity producing two images of unheard of beauty, the lovelier of which would eclipse even the dreams of poets."
13188,"My haggard and wild appearance awoke intense alarm, but I answered no question, scarcely did I speak."
13189,"In frame he was small, but intensely powerful, and was of incredible agility."
13190,"Supposing, then, the springs upon each sash to be the same, as was probable, there must be found a difference between the nails, or at least between the modes of their fixture."
13191,I had been advised to study Cousin.
13192,"All this was flagrant trashiness, and my friend Manton was not slow to insist on that fact."
13193,"He indeed went so far as to hint of the faint beating of great wings, and of a glimpse of shining eyes and a mountainous white bulk beyond the remotest trees but I suppose he had been hearing too much native superstition."
13194,"It was ""love at first sight;"" and at first sight, too, it had been appreciated and returned."
13195,But this very just apprehension seemed by no means likely to be soon verified.
13196,"By the by, talking of Humanity, do you know that our immortal Wiggins is not so original in his views of the Social Condition and so forth, as his contemporaries are inclined to suppose?"
13197,He hoped that it might be conquered without any revelation to the world of the monstrous thing it had escaped.
13198,"These vanes were four in number, but were found entirely ineffectual in moving the balloon, or in aiding its ascending power."
13199,"He hastened to take me aside, and disclosed to me with rapidity his plan of emigration from England."
13200,"The mail robber W , to whom I bore a singular resemblance, was at this moment passing from the city jail to the scaffold erected for his execution in the suburbs."
13201,"It is impossible to communicate to you a conception of the trembling sensation, half pleasurable and half fearful, with which I am preparing to depart."
13202,Upon the resumption of work Superintendent Arthur called on some especially dependable men to make a few investigations around the spot where the gulf had appeared.
13203,"His wife was one of those wondrous beings, to be found only among women, with affections not to be diminished by misfortune."
13204,Wild beyond the imagination of the happy are the thoughts bred by misery and despair.
13205,"At fifteen, or even at twenty one for I had now passed my fifth olympiad five years in prospect are very much the same as five hundred."
13206,"At midnight the doorbell rang, startling him fearfully."
13207,His departure afforded me relief.
13208,Then I wandered from the fancies of others and formed affections and intimacies with the aerial creations of my own brain but still clinging to reality I gave a name to these conceptions and nursed them in the hope of realization.
13209,"Over some flasks of the red Chian wine, within the walls of a noble hall, in a dim city called Ptolemais, we sat, at night, a company of seven."
13210,"He spoke much of the sciences of electricity and psychology and gave exhibitions of power which sent his spectators away speechless, yet which swelled his fame to exceeding magnitude."
13211,"He knew but a few words of English, while I found my Oxonian Spanish was something quite different from the patois of the peon of New Spain."
13212,A strange story was rife here.
13213,"Despite the state's safety regulations there was no fire escape on this side of the hotel, and I saw that my windows commanded only a sheer three story drop to the cobbled courtyard."
13214,Neither age nor submersion has corroded the pristine grandeur of this awful fane for fane indeed it must be and today after thousands of years it rests untarnished and inviolate in the endless night and silence of an ocean chasm.
13215,Why did dark night adorn herself with stars man saw them not?
13216,"Over the valley's rim a wan, waning crescent moon peered through the noisome vapours that seemed to emanate from unheard of catacombs, and by its feeble, wavering beams I could distinguish a repellent array of antique slabs, urns, cenotaphs, and mausolean facades; all crumbling, moss grown, and moisture stained, and partly concealed by the gross luxuriance of the unhealthy vegetation."
13217,"I don't believe they've had any glass for an hundred years or more maybe the boy broke 'em if he got that far; the legend doesn't say."""
13218,"But they were ever together and their happiness seemed that of Paradise: they studied together: formed plans of future occupations, and drinking in love and joy from each other's eyes and words they hardly repined at the delay to their entire union."
13219,"This judgment awaited direction, and the known outrage seemed so opportunely to afford it Marie, too, was found in the river; and upon this very river was this known outrage committed."
13220,"About three o'clock, in the afternoon of the Sunday in question, a young girl arrived at the inn, accompanied by a young man of dark complexion."
13221,Ye needn't think the only folks is the folks hereabaouts.
13222,"I proceeded at once, with the nervous energy of despair, to attempt its execution."
13223,He seemed stupified thunderstricken.
13224,"In the hurry of the moment I forgot that I was in Greece, and in my native accents endeavoured to soothe the sufferer."
13225,"His accession to the throne, or rather his usurpation of the sovereignty, a hundred and seventy one years before the coming of Christ; his attempt to plunder the temple of Diana at Ephesus; his implacable hostility to the Jews; his pollution of the Holy of Holies; and his miserable death at Taba, after a tumultuous reign of eleven years, are circumstances of a prominent kind, and therefore more generally noticed by the historians of his time than the impious, dastardly, cruel, silly, and whimsical achievements which make up the sum total of his private life and reputation."
13226,"The image on the monolith, of course, was carefully removed and carried back by Legrasse."
13227,"If he were truly my friend he would have calculated all this; and let me now calculate this boasted friendship, and discover its real worth."
13228,"I remembered, too, strange stories told about these Ragged Hills, and of the uncouth and fierce races of men who tenanted their groves and caverns."
13229,"At first I perceived that he tried to suppress his emotion; he placed his hands before his eyes, and my voice quivered and failed me as I beheld tears trickle fast from between his fingers; a groan burst from his heaving breast."
13230,The thought was too terrible to bear.
13231,His protectorate was to be distinguished by every kind of innovation on the aristocracy.
13232,The opinion must be rigorously the public's own; and the distinction is often exceedingly difficult to perceive and to maintain.
13233,"Do you know that Jupiter is quite right about it?"""
13234,"For although we may admit infinite littleness in the atoms themselves, the infinitude of littleness in the spaces between them is an absurdity."
13235,I say that even their exceeding density did not prevent our perceiving this yet we had no glimpse of the moon or stars nor was there any flashing forth of the lightning.
13236,You have cast yourself from among us and you wither on this wild plain forlorn and helpless: some dreadful calamity must have befallen you.
13237,"Something else had gone on ahead a larger wisp which now and then condensed into nameless approximations of form and he thought that their progress had not been in a straight line, but rather along the alien curves and spirals of some ethereal vortex which obeyed laws unknown to the physics and mathematics of any conceivable cosmos."
13238,"It required hands stronger than mine; stronger I do believe than any human force to break the thick, adamantine chain that has bound me, once breathing nothing but joy, ever possessed by a warm love delight in goodness, to misery only to be ended, and now about to be ended, in death."
13239,"They are right in this much that their own ingenuity is a faithful representative of that of the mass; but when the cunning of the individual felon is diverse in character from their own, the felon foils them, of course."
13240,"Patience, gentleness, and untired affection, shall recall him, if it be true, as Raymond says, that he is mad; energy and courage shall rescue him, if he be unjustly imprisoned."
13241,Would they dare wrong him thus?
13242,"Nevertheless, I am not the husband of my great, great, grandmother; and this is a reflection which affords me infinite relief, but I am the husband of Madame Lalande of Madame Stephanie Lalande with whom my good old relative, besides making me her sole heir when she dies if she ever does has been at the trouble of concocting me a match."
13243,"Will you tell him that he must excuse me to day, for I am not well."
13244,"I bent close to catch any articulate words he might utter, and thought I saw a sardonic smile behind the stained, bushy whiskers."
13245,"It is clear that the assassins were in the room where Mademoiselle L'Espanaye was found, or at least in the room adjoining, when the party ascended the stairs."
13246,"The balloon kept steadily on her course to the southward, and arrived, at nine P.M., over the northern edge of the Mexican Gulf."
13247,"With a little more prudence Dick Turpin would have made a good diddler; with a trifle less blarney, Daniel O'Connell; with a pound or two more brains Charles the Twelfth."
13248,His life was swallowed up in the existence of his beloved; and his heart beat only in unison with the pulsations that vivified hers.
13249,"M. Verhaeren, Belgian agent at a trading post on the Congo, believed that he could not only locate but obtain the stuffed goddess, of which he had vaguely heard; since the once mighty N'bangus were now the submissive servants of King Albert's government, and with but little persuasion could be induced to part with the gruesome deity they had carried off."
13250,"I knew one about eight years of age, whose success at guessing in the game of 'even and odd' attracted universal admiration."
13251,I was alone the whole evening.
13252,"That we could not understand, for we had patted down the mould very carefully."
13253,"There were footsteps and guttural sounds, and a rattling motor wheezed south along Federal Street."
13254,"It is said, on the contrary, that during each and every one of his one and twenty circumvolutions he emitted no less than one and twenty distinct and furious whiffs from his pipe, to which he held fast the whole time with all his might, and to which he intends holding fast until the day of his death."
13255,"That drink will plunge us in a sweet slumber, and when we awaken what joy will be ours to find all our sorrows and fears past."
13256,"Reticence such as this is seldom without a cause, nor indeed was ours; for our requirements were those resulting from a life work distinctly unpopular."
13257,In an agony of expectation I awaited the reply.
13258,"I said to him ""My dear Fortunato, you are luckily met."
13259,"She had just entered her twentieth year, and she and her lover were obliged to submit to this delay."
13260,But the fervid facility of his impromptus could not be so accounted for.
13261,"They are all, however, fitting tapestry for a chamber such as this."
13262,"This whole winter, instead of being spent in study, as you promised yourself, has been consumed in my sick room."
13263,"At length we reached the overhanging beach; a cottage stood beside the path; we knocked at the door and it was opened: the bed within instantly caught my eye; something stiff and straight lay on it, covered by a sheet; the cottagers looked aghast."
13264,"The fellahin knelt when they saw him, yet could not say why."
13265,Are these the picked bones of the little angel who has been cruelly devoured by the monster?
13266,"Doctor Templeton had been a traveller in his younger days, and at Paris had become a convert, in great measure, to the doctrines of Mesmer."
13267,"My poor love and I looked at each other, and our babes."
13268,I chuckled excessively when I thought of my acumen.
13269,Even his honor was concerned.
13270,I never beheld anything so utterly destroyed.
13271,"""Get out o' that"" said a third."
13272,"Once a terrific flash and peal shook the frail house to its foundations, but the whisperer seemed not to notice it."
13273,"While every mind was full of dismay at its effects, a craving for excitement had led us to peruse De Foe's account, and the masterly delineations of the author of Arthur Mervyn."
13274,"Nobody but Obed ud ever a believed the old yeller devil, but the Cap'n cud read folks like they was books."
13275,"Its approach was not, at first, seemingly rapid; nor was its appearance of very unusual character."
13276,All these and security were within.
13277,"The night passed away, and the sun rose from the ocean; my feelings became calmer, if it may be called calmness when the violence of rage sinks into the depths of despair."
13278,"I had encountered it in my genealogical work, but not in any record since the Revolution."
13279,The agonies of remorse poison the luxury there is otherwise sometimes found in indulging the excess of grief.
13280,"""This is mockery,"" I replied, ""you devote yourself, you, the adored brother of Idris, the being, of all the world contains, dearest to our hearts you devote yourself to an early death."
13281,"A touch of colour came to cheeks hitherto chalk white, and spread out under the curiously ample stubble of sandy beard."
13282,"His enthusiasm for good which did not exist; his contempt for the sacredness of authority; his ardour and imprudence were all at the antipodes of the usual routine of life; the worldly feared him; the young and inexperienced did not understand the lofty severity of his moral views, and disliked him as a being different from themselves."
13283,"I paused; at length he spoke, in broken accents: ""Unhappy man Do you share my madness?"
13284,But it is this gloom which appears to have taken so strong a hold of your mind that I wish to dissipate.
13285,"Good bye, until I see you again."
13286,He came by sea from Constantinople to Athens.
13287,He had caused the best room in the prison to be prepared for me wretched indeed was the best; and it was he who had provided a physician and a nurse.
13288,He was wholly bewildered as to the relation betwixt dream and reality in all his experiences.
13289,"The second step having been a consequence of the data, the third step is equally a consequence of the second, the fourth of the third, the fifth of the fourth, and so on, and not possibly otherwise, to the end."
13290,I was aroused to a sense of exquisite pain.
13291,"Lesser peaks they once inhabited; but ever the men from the plains would scale the slopes of rock and snow, driving the gods to higher and higher mountains till now only the last remains."
13292,"I looked on the heavens, which were covered by clouds that flew before the wind, only to be replaced by others; I looked upon the sea; it was to be my grave."
13293,"The first coup d'oeil, as the sun slid into the position described, impressed me very much as I have been impressed, when a boy, by the concluding scene of some well arranged theatrical spectacle or melodrama."
13294,Perhaps he did this because he saw a cloud upon Perdita's brow.
13295,"He was, moreover, enwrapt in an exquisite sense of the strange."
13296,"Had not, then, the riots of those bygone seventeen thirties set moving certain kinetic patterns in the morbid brain of one or more of them notably the sinister Paul Roulet which obscurely survived the bodies murdered and buried by the mob, and continued to function in some multiple dimensioned space along the original lines of force determined by a frantic hatred of the encroaching community?"
13297,Raymond promised; but then a new discussion ensued.
13298,"Pinned with a thumb tack to a vacant part of the canvas was a piece of paper now badly curled up probably, I thought, a photograph from which Pickman meant to paint a background as hideous as the nightmare it was to enhance."
13299,"As I waited for the carriage I walked up and down with a quick pace; then kneeling and passionately clasping my hands I tried to pray but my voice was choked by convulsive sobs Oh the sun shone, the air was balmy he must yet live for if he were dead all would surely be black as night to me The motion of the carriage knowing that it carried me towards him and that I might perhaps find him alive somewhat revived my courage: yet I had a dreadful ride."
13300,"Write 'Van muerte tan escondida, Que no te sienta venir, Porque el plazer del morir, No mestorne a dar la vida.' ""That's Spanish from Miguel de Cervantes."
13301,"Horrors of a nature most stern and most appalling would too frequently obtrude themselves upon my mind, and shake the innermost depths of my soul with the bare supposition of their possibility."
13302,He resolved to drag the burthen the evidence goes to show that it was dragged.
13303,"""Shame on the country,"" said Ryland, ""to lay so much stress upon words and frippery; it is a question of nothing; of the new painting of carriage pannels and the embroidery of footmen's coats."""
13304,"The evil is come home to us, and we must not shrink from our fate."
13305,"What boots it to tell of the long, long hours of horror more than mortal, during which I counted the rushing vibrations of the steel Inch by inch line by line with a descent only appreciable at intervals that seemed ages down and still down it came Days passed it might have been that many days passed ere it swept so closely over me as to fan me with its acrid breath."
13306,"Then she up an' spoke suddent of a fearful smell, an' says her boy Cha'ncey was a screamin' as haow it was jest like what he smelt up to the Whateley rewins Monday mornin'."
13307,"We, in our retirement, remained long in ignorance of her misfortune."
13308,"Who was it died of ""The Andromache""?"
13309,The lower and vagabond English joined with them.
13310,"I had advanced some ten or twelve paces in this manner, when the remnant of the torn hem of my robe became entangled between my legs."
13311,"He repined for the loss of what was more necessary to him than air or food the excitements of pleasure, the admiration of the noble, the luxurious and polished living of the great."
13312,"As we advanced, we were met by bands of peasantry, whose almost naked condition, whose despair and horror, told at once the fierce nature of the coming enemy."
13313,"The floor was a little raised, so that it was kept perfectly dry, and by its vicinity to the chimney of the cottage it was tolerably warm."
13314,"At other times he repeated my favourite poems, or drew me out into arguments, which he supported with great ingenuity."
13315,What was my destination?
13316,"It told of a certain ancient man who had once dwelt on our estates, a person of no small accomplishments, though little above the rank of peasant; by name, Michel, usually designated by the surname of Mauvais, the Evil, on account of his sinister reputation."
13317,My improvement was his delight; he was with me during all my studies and assisted or joined with me in every lesson.
13318,"""Please keep your feet to yourself You have spoiled my brocade Is it necessary, pray, to illustrate a remark in so practical a style?"
13319,"Being youthful and good looking, I naturally dislike these, and have resolutely refused to employ them."
13320,I saw that she must die and I struggled desperately in spirit with the grim Azrael.
13321,"So as I drove the crowd away I told him he must come home with me and be my teacher and leader in unfathomed mysteries, and he assented without speaking a word."
13322,You need not look up at the heavens; his Sunship is not there at least not the Sunship adored by the Syrians.
13323,I could not in any reason have so rapidly come down.
13324,"""Dios guarda"" muttered Don Stiletto."
13325,"By way of punishing me for this imprudence, she concocted with Talbot a plot."
13326,"Twilight had now approached, but neither of us felt any wish to cease speaking."
13327,"I looked in the drawer, and found none there."
13328,Thus man is individualized.
13329,"He was like a poet of old whom the muses had crowned in his cradle, and on whose lips bees had fed."
13330,"Here he faltered, and seemed to shiver afresh with the fright that had sent him flying home."
13331,"I hed two er three schoolmasters read me a bit, and Passon Clark, him they say got draownded in the pond kin yew make anything outen it?"""
13332,"Shut in, however, by ice, it was impossible to follow his track, which we had observed with the greatest attention."
13333,"The tall grass near her was moving, too, as if some other living thing were crawling close to the ground."
13334,"""Four of the above named witnesses, being recalled, deposed that the door of the chamber in which was found the body of Mademoiselle L. was locked on the inside when the party reached it."
13335,There was no investigation of any thing at all.
13336,"It could hardly be credited, however, that I had, even here, so utterly fallen from the gentlemanly estate, as to seek acquaintance with the vilest arts of the gambler by profession, and, having become an adept in his despicable science, to practise it habitually as a means of increasing my already enormous income at the expense of the weak minded among my fellow collegians."
13337,"I did not, for some weeks, strike, or otherwise violently ill use it; but gradually very gradually I came to look upon it with unutterable loathing, and to flee silently from its odious presence, as from the breath of a pestilence."
13338,Beloved and venerable parent He still remained to me.
13339,"He raised his eyes from the ground, but still turning them away from me, said: ""Besought by that plea I will answer your rash question."
13340,"He descended the hill with a face beaming with triumph, and pointing with his sword to the gates, commanded his troops to down with those barricades the only obstacles now to completest victory."
13341,"In his rivalry he might have been supposed actuated solely by a whimsical desire to thwart, astonish, or mortify myself; although there were times when I could not help observing, with a feeling made up of wonder, abasement, and pique, that he mingled with his injuries, his insults, or his contradictions, a certain most inappropriate, and assuredly most unwelcome affectionateness of manner."
13342,"I found that the berries were spoiled by this operation, and the nuts and roots much improved."
13343,"Behold, when I was small like thee I dwelt in the valley of Narthos by the frigid Xari, where none would listen to my dreams; and I told myself that when older I would go to Sinara on the southern slope, and sing to smiling dromedary men in the market place."
13344,While there is life there is action and change.
13345,"But now my boasted independence was daily instigating me to acts of tyranny, and freedom was becoming licentiousness."
13346,"""Keeping now steadily in mind the points to which I have drawn your attention that peculiar voice, that unusual agility, and that startling absence of motive in a murder so singularly atrocious as this let us glance at the butchery itself."
13347,He was now our Lord Protector.
13348,"Over the upper portion of this huge window, extended the trellice work of an aged vine, which clambered up the massy walls of the turret."
13349,"But the case with which these variable fancies were entertained, and the very plausibility which each assumed, should have been understood as indicative rather of the difficulties than of the facilities which must attend elucidation."
13350,"And the men of Oonai were pale with revelling and dull with wine, and unlike the radiant men of Aira."
13351,"Never a competent navigator, I could only guess vaguely by the sun and stars that I was somewhat south of the equator."
13352,"His knees tottered beneath a load of years, and his entire frame quivered under the burthen."
13353,"Whatever I was about to reply, was interrupted by the powerful emotions of Clara."
13354,On the hearth were thick tresses very thick tresses of grey human hair.
13355,I remembered Adam's supplication to his Creator.
13356,"""That is another of your odd notions,"" said the Prefect, who had a fashion of calling every thing ""odd"" that was beyond his comprehension, and thus lived amid an absolute legion of ""oddities."""
13357,"Once upon her feet, she gnashed her gums, brandished her arms, rolled up her sleeves, shook her fist in my face, and concluded the performance by tearing the cap from her head, and with it an immense wig of the most valuable and beautiful black hair, the whole of which she dashed upon the ground with a yell, and there trammpled and danced a fandango upon it, in an absolute ecstasy and agony of rage."
13358,"The plague was forgotten, in this new fear which the black sun had spread; and, though the dead multiplied, and the streets of Ispahan, of Pekin, and of Delhi were strewed with pestilence struck corpses, men passed on, gazing on the ominous sky, regardless of the death beneath their feet."
13359,"Something like fear chilled me as I sat there in the small hours alone I say alone, for one who sits by a sleeper is indeed alone; perhaps more alone than he can realise."
13360,"To observe attentively is to remember distinctly; and, so far, the concentrative chess player will do very well at whist; while the rules of Hoyle themselves based upon the mere mechanism of the game are sufficiently and generally comprehensible."
13361,"The pallid group in the road, still reeling at the indisputably English syllables that had poured thickly and thunderously down from the frantic vacancy beside that shocking altar stone, were never to hear such syllables again."
13362,"In a city, fifteen years are no long period a child may be still a child in his third lustrum: but in a wilderness in so magnificent a wilderness as that old principality, fifteen years have a far deeper meaning."
13363,"Her pallet and easel were now thrown aside; did she try to paint, thronging recollections made her hand tremble, her eyes fill with tears."
13364,shots an' screams . . .
13365,"The body having been encoffined, we two alone bore it to its rest."
13366,"Others again among them may be mentioned the family physician did not hesitate in speaking of morbid melancholy, and hereditary ill health; while dark hints, of a more equivocal nature, were current among the multitude."
13367,"It was a dark night when I bade her good bye, and taking with me, as aides de camp, the three creditors who had given me so much trouble, we carried the balloon, with the car and accoutrements, by a roundabout way, to the station where the other articles were deposited."
13368,Was only funnin any how.
13369,And now an indescribable uneasiness possessed me a species of nervous hesitation and tremor.
13370,"To a mind constituted like my own, the latter consideration is an evil."
13371,"I drew up to my eyes each of my hands, one after the other, and wondered what occurrence could have given rise to the swelling of the veins, and the horrible blackness of the fingernails."
13372,"If you'll keep cool, and accept the need for making certain radical readjustments in your life, you can keep right on enjoying the world, and the fruits of your scholarship."
13373,On one side was a small opening.
13374,"The Baron afterwards informed me that he had purposely thrown the treatise in Hermann's way two or three weeks before the adventure, and that he was satisfied, from the general tenor of his conversation, that he had studied it with the deepest attention, and firmly believed it to be a work of unusual merit."
13375,"Then one summer day he was turned out of his garret, and wandered aimlessly through the streets, drifting over a bridge to a place where the houses grew thinner and thinner."
13376,"According to the vulgar superstition, my dress, my person, the air I breathed, bore in it mortal danger to myself and others."
13377,When a traveller in north central Massachusetts takes the wrong fork at the junction of the Aylesbury pike just beyond Dean's Corners he comes upon a lonely and curious country.
13378,Strange and terrible books were drawn voluminously from the stack shelves and from secure places of storage; and diagrams and formulae were copied with feverish haste and in bewildering abundance.
13379,"I AM now growing in years, and since I understand that Shakespeare and Mr. Emmons are deceased it is not impossible that I may even die."
13380,"All events, at the same time that they deeply interested me, arranged themselves in pictures before me."
13381,You shall be my heir.
13382,"The villains have escaped for the time, but the police are upon their trail, and some of them will soon be taken."""
13383,"Before long I was pretty nearly a devotee, and would listen for hours like a schoolboy to art theories and philosophic speculations wild enough to qualify him for the Danvers asylum."
13384,"The two forces mingling, unarmed and hand in hand, talking only how each might assist the other, the adversaries conjoined; each repenting, the one side their former cruelties, the other their late violence, they obeyed the orders of the General to proceed towards London."
13385,She had to play the part of a courteous hostess; to attend to all; to shine the focus of enjoyment and grace.
13386,"And now, Agathos, as we proceed, instruct me speak to me in the earth's familiar tones."
13387,"Zann said that he was old, lonely, and afflicted with strange fears and nervous disorders connected with his music and with other things."
13388,"""We have received one or two communications, the object of which is to fasten the crime of the late atrocity upon Mennais; but as this gentleman has been fully exonerated by a loyal inquiry, and as the arguments of our several correspondents appear to be more zealous than profound, we do not think it advisable to make them public."""
13389,"The laboratory was in a sub cellar secretly constructed by imported workmen, and contained a huge incinerator for the quiet and complete disposal of such bodies, or fragments and synthetic mockeries of bodies, as might remain from the morbid experiments and unhallowed amusements of the owner."
13390,"I am impelled, even in the teeth of a world of prejudice, to detail without comment the very remarkable substance of a colloquy, occurring between a sleep waker and myself."
13391,"Had my obvious sightseeing, with its frequent map consultations, aroused unfavourable notice?"
13392,The evening thus spent was unquestionably the most delicious of my life.
13393,"Farewell, my only living friend; you are the sole tie that binds me to existence, and now I break it."
13394,"The lower floors of the crumbling houses sometimes harboured small shops with dingy signs, and I noticed a parked truck or two as we rattled along."
13395,On our way home my companion stepped in for a moment at the office of one of the daily papers.
13396,"I will see him to morrow if he wishes it, and you also."
13397,"He came back to Jermyn House a widower with an infant son, Alfred, who was one day to be the father of Arthur Jermyn."
13398,"I would call forthwith upon the General himself, and demand, in explicit terms, a solution of this abominable piece of mystery."
13399,Late in the evening she entered the apartments appropriated to the festival.
13400,"Though Constantinople be heaped above him as a tomb, yet I must find him then cover us with the city's weight, with a mountain piled above I care not, so that one grave hold Raymond and his Perdita."""
13401,Rousseau Nouvelle Heloise.
13402,"The weather was fine; it was about the middle of the month of August, nearly two months after the death of Justine, that miserable epoch from which I dated all my woe."
13403,Raymond's answer was brief.
13404,"There ran little streams over bright pebbles, dividing meads of green and gardens of many hues, and spanned by a multitude of bridges."
13405,"Such a tale filled the trumpet of many voiced fame; such a tale rendered my longer stay at Vienna, away from the friend of my youth, intolerable."
13406,But you have a husband and lovely children; you may be happy.
13407,"What has risen may sink, and what has sunk may rise."
13408,"He had come forth from the hands of God a perfect creature, happy and prosperous, guarded by the especial care of his Creator; he was allowed to converse with and acquire knowledge from beings of a superior nature, but I was wretched, helpless, and alone."
13409,"It was, in fact, a sledge, like that we had seen before, which had drifted towards us in the night on a large fragment of ice."
13410,"As I imagined, the ship proves to be in a current; if that appellation can properly be given to a tide which, howling and shrieking by the white ice, thunders on to the southward with a velocity like the headlong dashing of a cataract."
13411,"The same lulling sounds acted as a lullaby to my too keen sensations; when I placed my head upon my pillow, sleep crept over me; I felt it as it came and blessed the giver of oblivion."
13412,He had traced the man to one of the most penurious streets in the metropolis.
13413,Clara and Alfred followed.
13414,In no one moment of coming time did I feel as I had done in time gone by.
13415,"If any person knew anything about Brevet Brigadier General John A. B. C. Smith, that person, it was clear to me, was Miss Tabitha T. We telegraphed a few signals, and then commenced, soto voce, a brisk tête à tête."
13416,"Sing a thousand over again Soho let us sing Long life to our king, Who knocked over a thousand so fine Soho let us roar, He has given us more Red gallons of gore Than all Syria can furnish of wine ""Do you hear that flourish of trumpets?"""
13417,"Something in the Martenses' manner gave Gifford a feeling of repulsion and suspicion, and a week later he returned with spade and mattock to explore the sepulchral spot."
13418,This time neither could doubt but that something hideously serious was closing in around them.
13419,"He might see, perhaps, one or two points with unusual clearness, but in so doing he, necessarily, lost sight of the matter as a whole."
13420,"I felt light, and hunger, and thirst, and darkness; innumerable sounds rang in my ears, and on all sides various scents saluted me; the only object that I could distinguish was the bright moon, and I fixed my eyes on that with pleasure."
13421,"Queer haow a cravin' gits a holt on ye As ye love the Almighty, young man, don't tell nobody, but I swar ter Gawd thet picter begun ta make me hungry fer victuals I couldn't raise nor buy here, set still, what's ailin' ye?"
13422,"It was in mid summer, when the alchemy of Nature transmutes the sylvan landscape to one vivid and almost homogeneous mass of green; when the senses are well nigh intoxicated with the surging seas of moist verdure and the subtly indefinable odours of the soil and the vegetation."
13423,"Ef they dew, they'll keep up a singin' an' laffin' till break o' day."
13424,"We found it without much difficulty, when, dismissing her, I proceeded to examine the place."
13425,Omne ignotum pro magnifico.
13426,"It was not, indeed, difficult to begin a counter attack, for I knew that Joel Manton actually half clung to many old wives' superstitions which sophisticated people had long outgrown; beliefs in the appearance of dying persons at distant places, and in the impressions left by old faces on the windows through which they had gazed all their lives."
13427,They pressed they swarmed upon me in ever accumulating heaps.
13428,"He placed the needle at the wrong end of the tube, and drawing his breath strongly to puff the dart forward with force, drew the needle into his throat."
13429,"Her mother, all eyes and ears, soon interrupted us; and I saw, that she wished to dismiss me quietly, as one whose services, now that his relatives had arrived, were of no use to her son."
13430,"Sir Wade was, indeed, most peculiar in his solicitude for his family; for when he returned to Africa he would permit no one to care for his young son save a loathsome black woman from Guinea."
13431,"The glassy roll of the eye was changed for that expression of uneasy inward examination which is never seen except in cases of sleep waking, and which it is quite impossible to mistake."
13432,And in the glow of the moon I saw how unwise I had been to travel by day.
13433,My sister's heightened colour and sparkling eyes half revealed her secret to me.
13434,"Thus, notwithstanding the thoughtless delight that waited on its commencement, the impression I have of my life at Vienna is melancholy."
13435,"Over those horrors the evil moon now hung very low, but the puffy worms of the sea need no moon to feed by."
13436,She feared to lose sight of him; yet she dreaded to remark any change in the temper of his mind.
13437,In other conditions of mind I might have had courage to end my misery at once by a plunge into one of these abysses; but now I was the veriest of cowards.
13438,"The words ""penny a liner,"" ""mendicant,"" ""scullion,"" and ""cut throat,"" were epithets so intentionally inexpressive and equivocal, as to be worse than nothing when applied to the author of the very worst stanzas ever penned by one of the human race."
13439,"Why should this be, if HE were not good?"
13440,She accused herself of his journey to Greece his dangers his imprisonment.
13441,"At last the noise of the cattle subsided to a pitiful moaning, and a great snapping, crashing, and crackling ensued."
13442,"Their melancholy is soothing, and their joy elevating, to a degree I never experienced in studying the authors of any other country."
13443,This is no sudden fancy; I live by it.
13444,"To Ritzner, ever upon the lookout for the grotesque, his peculiarities had for a long time past afforded food for mystification."
13445,A Frenchman was cognizant of the murder.
13446,"They look very odd, very like something between a turkey cock and a dromedary."
13447,"""It is Guido's own how could you have obtained it?"
13448,"The physician questioned him sharply, and advised him to see a nerve specialist."
13449,"We live on a placid island of ignorance in the midst of black seas of infinity, and it was not meant that we should voyage far."
13450,"But let us go; to morrow we will arrange to ride out together, and proceeding towards that part of the forest, call upon him."""
13451,"The elder partner of the firm, however, would allow me only one penny of the charge, and took it upon himself to show in what manner four of the same sized conveniences could be got out of a sheet of foolscap."
13452,"""Belay that"" interrupted Tarpaulin, astonished not more at the length of his companion's speech than at the nature of his refusal ""Belay that you tubber and I say, Legs, none of your palaver My hull is still light, although I confess you yourself seem to be a little top heavy; and as for the matter of your share of the cargo, why rather than raise a squall I would find stowageroom for it myself, but"" ""This proceeding,"" interposed the president, ""is by no means in accordance with the terms of the mulct or sentence, which is in its nature Median, and not to be altered or recalled."
13453,"Brewster takes no notice of it whatever beyond a mere statement, we believe, that such is the fact."
13454,"The now ghastly pallor of the skin, and the now miraculous lustre of the eye, above all things startled and even awed me."
13455,"It was succeeded by a sad voice, which I had difficulty in recognising as that of the noble Fortunato."
13456,My father was very little changed from what he described himself to be before his misfortunes.
13457,I could no longer doubt that we had been precipitate in our preparations that Rowena still lived.
13458,"It represented a monster of vaguely anthropoid outline, but with an octopus like head whose face was a mass of feelers, a scaly, rubbery looking body, prodigious claws on hind and fore feet, and long, narrow wings behind."
13459,"He looked impatiently around the low pitched room with the rag carpet and exposed beams and corner posts, and smiled only when the orchard boughs scratched at the leaded panes of the rear window."
13460,"As may well be imagined, I gave up most of the foreplanned features of the rest of my tour the scenic, architectural, and antiquarian diversions on which I had counted so heavily."
13461,"There was much more than I could remember, but even what I did remember each morning would be enough to stamp me as a madman or a genius if ever I dared write it down."
13462,"And the very enormity of this offence against all manly and honourable sentiment proved, beyond doubt, the main if not the sole reason of the impunity with which it was committed."
13463,I could not see the figure of him who had aroused me.
13464,"Now, hold out one of your hands, Pompey, and let me step upon it thus."
13465,"""Smith?"" said Miss Arabella, as she at length comprehended the purport of my query; ""Smith?"
13466,"Could I have judged, indeed, by the wild overstrained air of vivacity with which he harkened, or apparently harkened, to the words of the tale, I might well have congratulated myself upon the success of my design."
13467,"After the Civil War all industrial life was confined to the Marsh Refining Company, and the marketing of gold ingots formed the only remaining bit of major commerce aside from the eternal fishing."
13468,"Relations of what he had done, conjectures concerning his future actions, were the never failing topics of the hour."
13469,I saw I felt that I had perfect command of my senses and these senses now brought to my soul a world of novel and singular sensation.
13470,Before entering upon this subject it would be as well to give a brief history and description of the Chess Player for the benefit of such of our readers as may never have had an opportunity of witnessing Mr. Maelzel's exhibition.
13471,"He often thanked us for the books we lent him, and for the use of our instruments, but never spoke of his altered abode or change of circumstances."
13472,"And in these arrangements of the Principia of human action, the Spurzheimites, whether right or wrong, in part, or upon the whole, have but followed, in principle, the footsteps of their predecessors: deducing and establishing every thing from the preconceived destiny of man, and upon the ground of the objects of his Creator."
13473,It is our reasoner's object merely to show that this body is not Marie's.
13474,"I would have escorted her myself, but felt that, under the circumstances of my introduction to the house, I had better remain unobserved where I was."
13475,"I now began to feel my way in the science, and soon came to understand that, provided a man had a nose sufficiently conspicuous he might, by merely following it, arrive at a Lionship."
13476,"He talked of general subjects, and gave me ideas I had never before conceived."
13477,"In the lucid intervals of my infirmity, her calamity, indeed, gave me pain, and, taking deeply to heart that total wreck of her fair and gentle life, I did not fail to ponder, frequently and bitterly, upon the wonder working means by which so strange a revolution had been so suddenly brought to pass."
13478,"A male and a female nurse were in attendance; but I did not feel myself altogether at liberty to engage in a task of this character with no more reliable witnesses than these people, in case of sudden accident, might prove."
13479,"""Her decease,"" he said, with a bitterness which I can never forget, ""would leave him him the hopeless and the frail the last of the ancient race of the Ushers."""
13480,"I awoke exhausted, and finding that it was already night, I crept forth from my hiding place, and went in search of food."
13481,I lay on the deck looking at the stars and listening to the dashing of the waves.
13482,"When he conversed with me his manner was cold and constrained; his eyes only seemed to speak, and as he turned their black, full lustre towards me they expressed a living sadness."
13483,"For bringing the upper earth men's death I must do a penance, but that would not be heavy."
13484,"He was playing at 'puff the dart,' which is played with a long needle inserted in some worsted, and blown at a target through a tin tube."
13485,"""He shall not drink He shall not drink"" Thus roared Old Bugs as he seemed to run out of or rise above quotations."
13486,The next day I carefully wrapped the green jade amulet and sailed for Holland.
13487,"Having reached, in its former course, about the twentieth parallel of southern latitude, it turned off suddenly, at an acute angle, to the eastward, and thus proceeded throughout the day, keeping nearly, if not altogether, in the exact plane of the lunar elipse."
13488,"My nervous condition was reflected in my dreams, for I seemed to hear the cries of drowning persons, and to see dead faces pressing against the portholes of the boat."
13489,"To me, they have presented little but Horror to many they will seem less terrible than barroques."
13490,"""You did see it until it got dark."""
13491,"He had scarcely finished the sentence, before loud shouts and imprecations were heard beneath the windows; and, immediately afterward, it became evident that some persons outside were endeavoring to gain entrance into the room."
13492,"This being done, there will be no difficulty whatever."
13493,"While my companion contemplated with a serious and satisfied spirit the magnificent appearances of things, I delighted in investigating their causes."
13494,"I lay on the ground, and giving the reins to my thoughts, repassed in my mind my former life; and began, fold by fold, to unwind the many errors of my heart, and to discover how brutish, savage, and worthless I had hitherto been."
13495,It gives me no pain to leave you; nor can our seperation give you much.
13496,"Four days later, whilst we were both in the hidden museum, there came a low, cautious scratching at the single door which led to the secret library staircase."
13497,"His mouth was puckered and dimpled into an expression of ghastly affability, and his eyes, as indeed the eyes of all at table, were glazed over with the fumes of intoxication."
13498,"And, sure enough, one fine morning the keepers found themselves pinioned hand and foot, and thrown into the cells, where they were attended, as if they were the lunatics, by the lunatics themselves, who had usurped the offices of the keepers."""
13499,"His new novels were successful as his old ones had never been; and because he knew how empty they must be to please an empty herd, he burned them and ceased his writing."
13500,I pored over the poetry of old times; I studied the metaphysics of Plato and Berkeley.
13501,"An important event then happened of which the following Blackwood article, in the tone heterogeneous, is the substance and result."
13502,"The student left his books, the artist his study: the occupations of life were gone, but the amusements remained; enjoyment might be protracted to the verge of the grave."
13503,"Saddened by these family misfortunes, the scientist sought relief in work, and made two long expeditions in the interior of Africa."
13504,My thoughts were gems to enrich the treasure house of man's intellectual possessions; each sentiment was a precious gift I bestowed on them.
13505,All this has a different effect upon Raymond.
13506,For a few short days they would not believe an assertion which their intellect so long employed among worldly considerations could not in any manner grasp.
13507,"We steered due West; but as the trailing of the buoys materially impeded our progress, and we had the balloon abundantly at command, either for ascent or descent, we first threw out fifty pounds of ballast, and then wound up by means of a windlass so much of the rope as brought it quite clear of the sea."
13508,"This I did, upon the spot, in a review of the original ""Oil of Bob,"" occupying thirty six pages of the ""Lollipop."""
13509,"I must bring this paper, perforce, to a conclusion, and this I cannot do better than by a summary notice of a very decent, but rather elaborate diddle, of which our own city was made the theatre, not very long ago, and which was subsequently repeated with success, in other still more verdant localities of the Union."
13510,"At length the idea is entertained of uniting the force of a great number of the birds, with a view to raising the author himself."
13511,"No railroad now B. M. never went through, and the branch line from Rowley was given up years ago."
13512,Wherefore should this be?
13513,"""'Excellent man I thank you and accept your generous offer."
13514,"But because the people had thrown him blossoms and acclaimed his songs Iranon stayed on, and with him Romnod, who liked the revelry of the town and wore in his dark hair roses and myrtle."
13515,"We came at length to the foot of the descent, and stood together on the damp ground of the catacombs of the Montresors."
13516,The mortal body had been at length stricken with the hand of the deadly Decay.
13517,I was then only twenty years old.
13518,Certain accessory points of the design served well to convey the idea that this excavation lay at an exceeding depth below the surface of the earth.
13519,"That time we were almost caught before we incinerated the thing, and West doubted the advisability of repeating his daring misuse of the college laboratory."
13520,"I know not why I went thither unless to pray, or gibber out insane pleas and apologies to the calm white thing that lay within; but, whatever my reason, I attacked the half frozen sod with a desperation partly mine and partly that of a dominating will outside myself."
13521,"There was a mighty eddying and foaming in the noisome brine, and as the steam mounted higher and higher the brave Norwegian drove his vessel head on against the pursuing jelly which rose above the unclean froth like the stern of a daemon galleon."
13522,Perdita prepared to follow him with her child.
13523,"""And why is everybody so down on Innsmouth?"
13524,"The affection and amity of a Raymond might be inestimable; but, beyond that affection, embosomed deeper than friendship, was the indivisible treasure of love."
13525,That season was now gone; and winter had set in with sudden and unusual severity.
13526,The loft above the ceiling which must have had a slanting floor was likewise inaccessible.
13527,"Soon after its completion it was exhibited in Presburg, Paris, Vienna, and other continental cities."
13528,"Let us admit the first elopement to have resulted in a quarrel between the lovers, and the return home of the betrayed."
13529,I assure you that it is of the highest importance.
13530,"As we were almost constantly on a wind, and the breeze was not a little stiff, the ship heeled to leeward very considerably; and whenever her starboard side was to leeward, the sliding door between the cabins slid open, and so remained, nobody taking the trouble to get up and shut it."
13531,"Justine also was a girl of merit and possessed qualities which promised to render her life happy; now all was to be obliterated in an ignominious grave, and I the cause A thousand times rather would I have confessed myself guilty of the crime ascribed to Justine, but I was absent when it was committed, and such a declaration would have been considered as the ravings of a madman and would not have exculpated her who suffered through me."
13532,"The fires must be lit, and the dancers must be starting in."
13533,My food is not that of man; I do not destroy the lamb and the kid to glut my appetite; acorns and berries afford me sufficient nourishment.
13534,But it was all to no purpose.
13535,"Ask where now was this favourite of fashion, this companion of the noble, this excelling beam, which gilt with alien splendour the assemblies of the courtly and the gay you heard that he was under a cloud, a lost man; not one thought it belonged to him to repay pleasure by real services, or that his long reign of brilliant wit deserved a pension on retiring."
13536,"Then the picture was passed to Trever, and a change came over the youth."
13537,"At length she rose, more composed, not less miserable."
13538,"The wind howled; the half bare trees were despoiled of the remainder of their summer ornament; the state of the air which induced the decay of vegetation, was hostile to cheerfulness or hope."
13539,"It was very long, narrow, and dismally low, with pointed Gothic windows and a ceiling of oak."
13540,"Ryland was the leader of the popular party, a hard headed man, and in his way eloquent; he had obtained leave to bring in a bill making it treason to endeavour to change the present state of the English government and the standing laws of the republic."
13541,"Consequent upon this discovery, new evidence appeared."
13542,"The better sort of houses were shut up; the busy trade of the town palsied; there was an air of anxiety among the few passengers I met, and they looked wonderingly at my carriage the first they had seen pass towards London, since pestilence sat on its high places, and possessed its busy streets."
13543,"I asked Esteban either to help with the ice fetching whilst I obtained the pump piston, or to order the piston while I continued with the ice; but instructed by his mother, he absolutely refused."
13544,"I chafed and bathed the temples and the hands, and used every exertion which experience, and no little medical reading, could suggest."
13545,"He described her as of surpassing beauty, wit, and accomplishment."
13546,"No portion of the masonry had fallen; and there appeared to be a wild inconsistency between its still perfect adaptation of parts, and the crumbling condition of the individual stones."
13547,"In ordered terraces rose the green banks, adorned here and there with bowers of vines and sweet blossoms, and seats and benches of marble and porphyry."
13548,"They believed all sorts of things and maybe they saw all sorts of things, too, for the Middle Ages had some curious phases."
13549,"As Wilcox would have said, the geometry of the place was all wrong."
13550,"I had hardly finished reading the ""Toad,"" when a friend placed in my hands a copy of the ""Mole,"" a daily, enjoying high reputation for the keenness of its perception about matters in general, and for the open, honest, above ground style of its editorials."
13551,"The world is vast, and England, though her many fields and wide spread woods seem interminable, is but a small part of her."
13552,"""Not long ago,"" said he at length, ""and I could have guided you on this route as well as the youngest of my sons; but, about three years past, there happened to me an event such as never happened to mortal man or at least such as no man ever survived to tell of and the six hours of deadly terror which I then endured have broken me up body and soul."
13553,"The address, however, was uppermost, and, the contents thus unexposed, the letter escaped notice."
13554,"People who were formerly, the very best customers in the world, had now not a moment of time to think of us at all."
13555,"I ardently desired to understand them, and bent every faculty towards that purpose, but found it utterly impossible."
13556,"Some hours passed thus; but by degrees, as the sun declined towards the horizon, the wind died away into a gentle breeze and the sea became free from breakers."
13557,In neither case could he act with the requisite ease or precision.
13558,"These bleak skies I hail, for they are kinder to me than your fellow beings."
13559,"If this were so, I would have to make my retreat across country away from any road; but how could I do that in view of the marshy and creek riddled nature of all the surrounding region?"
13560,"Then there rang out a scream from a wholly different throat such a scream as roused half the sleepers of Arkham and haunted their dreams ever afterward such a scream as could come from no being born of earth, or wholly of earth."
13561,Thus then I should meet this titled stripling the son of my father's friend.
13562,"Those organic entities whose motions seemed least flagrantly irrelevant and unmotivated were probably projections of life forms from our own planet, including human beings."
13563,I took up Spencer and read the descent of Sir Guyon to the halls of Avarice; while he listened his eyes fixed on me in sad profound silence.
13564,"Opposite the base of Sentinel Hill the tracks left the road, and there was a fresh bending and matting visible along the broad swath marking the monster's former route to and from the summit."
13565,I could no longer doubt that I reposed within a coffin at last.
13566,"Upon the door being opened, Mademoiselle L. appeared and took from his hands one of the bags, while the old lady relieved him of the other."
13567,"Subsequent terror drove them from my mind, but I think the last one, which I repeated, was: ""Where have you been?"""
13568,"I did not tell very much of what I had seen, for I feared the coroner would be sceptical; but from the evasive outline I did give, the doctor told me that I had undoubtedly been hypnotised by the vindictive and homicidal madman."
13569,"He felt the chain of the cheap crucifix grinding into his neck, and in his peril wondered how the sight of the object itself would affect the evil creature."
13570,"I did not exactly relish the task, for the atmosphere of the Williamson home had always depressed me."
13571,"""Treason"" screamed the Arch Duchess Ana Pest."
13572,"After an unquiet slumber of some three or four hours' duration, we arose, as if by preconcert, to make examination of our treasure."
13573,"This, I now saw, West had clearly recognised; creating his embalming compound for future rather than immediate use, and trusting to fate to supply again some very recent and unburied corpse, as it had years before when we obtained the negro killed in the Bolton prize fight."
13574,Sweet creature she too has sacrificed herself in my behalf.
13575,"Mexico laid waste by the united effects of storm, pestilence and famine."
13576,And upward along that pallid path my fevered fancy pictured a thin shadow slowly writhing; a vague contorted shadow struggling as if drawn by unseen daemons.
13577,"Yet, for a while, I saw; but with how terrible an exaggeration I saw the lips of the black robed judges."
13578,"This, too, when it was evident that the most egregious and unpardonable of all conceivable tricks, whimsicalities and buffooneries were brought about, if not directly by him, at least plainly through his intermediate agency or connivance."
13579,"My only excuse for thus transforming them, is that they were unintelligible in their pristine condition."
13580,"I sat tete baissée, as they have it in the Kickapoo, bowing my head close to the alabaster page."
13581,"Attempt, now, to place all your fingers, at the same time, in the respective impressions as you see them."""
13582,"Floating gently onward, but with a velocity slightly augmented, the voyager, after many short turns, finds his progress apparently barred by a gigantic gate or rather door of burnished gold, elaborately carved and fretted, and reflecting the direct rays of the now fast sinking sun with an effulgence that seems to wreath the whole surrounding forest in flames."
13583,"The sharp frost and heavy snows tamed the animals, and kept the country gentlemen by their firesides; we got more game than we could eat, and my faithful dog grew sleek upon our refuse."
13584,"""To my ancestor "" he softly continued, ""there appeared to reside some very remarkable qualities in the will of mankind; qualities having a little suspected dominance not only over the acts of one's self and of others, but over every variety of force and substance in Nature, and over many elements and dimensions deemed more univarsal than Nature herself."
13585,"It is painful, I allow, destructive, impracticable."
13586,"The loving heart, obliged to contract its view, bestowed its overflow of affection in triple portion on the few that remained."
13587,Nature is full of such illusions to impress the imaginative.
13588,"That the secret has not been divulged, is the very best of proof that it is, in fact, a secret."
13589,I bade them search search well.
13590,"Once even, Adrian ventured to propose her receiving me."
13591,What I have said above upon this topic must suffice.
13592,"""But how did you proceed?"" ""I held the vellum again to the fire, after increasing the heat; but nothing appeared."
13593,"That cursed, that damnable pit . . ."
13594,"It drinks the dark blood of the inhabitant of the south, but it never feasts on the pale faced Celt."
13595,"During my father's life, she had been made familiar with the name of royalty and the courtly circle; but such things, ill according with her personal experience, appeared, after the loss of him who gave substance and reality to them, vague and fantastical."
13596,"Later, it seems, he and one companion boarded the yacht and tried to manage her, but were beaten about by the storm of April nd."
13597,"When selecting the hill and building his mansion, Mynheer Martense had laid these frequent natural outbursts to some peculiarity of the year; but in time he perceived that the locality was especially liable to such phenomena."
13598,"I had before been moved by the sophisms of the being I had created; I had been struck senseless by his fiendish threats; but now, for the first time, the wickedness of my promise burst upon me; I shuddered to think that future ages might curse me as their pest, whose selfishness had not hesitated to buy its own peace at the price, perhaps, of the existence of the whole human race."
13599,"Surveying the conditions, I chose the more southerly of the two windows as my avenue of escape; planning to land on the inner slope of the roof and make for the nearest skylight."
13600,"I made no doubt that I could readily displace the bricks at this point, insert the corpse, and wall the whole up as before, so that no eye could detect any thing suspicious."
13601,"He loved to dwell on what might have been the state of the earth before man lived on it, and how he first arose and gradually became the strange, complicated, but as he said, the glorious creature he now is."
13602,"Oh, you would have laughed to see how cunningly I thrust it in I moved it slowly very, very slowly, so that I might not disturb the old man's sleep."
13603,"In this rim was screwed the large tube of the condenser, the body of the machine being, of course, within the chamber of gum elastic."
13604,"The anticipations of the shopkeeper were realized, and his rooms soon became notorious through the charms of the sprightly grisette."
13605,"My next step was to look for the beast which had been the cause of so much wretchedness; for I had, at length, firmly resolved to put it to death."
13606,"These events have affected me, God knows how deeply; but I am not so wretched as you are."
13607,"The figures of fiends in aspects of menace, with skeleton forms, and other more really fearful images, overspread and disfigured the walls."
13608,"Malign purpose was all I could think of, and I kept deathly quiet, awaiting the would be intruder's next move."
13609,"There were periods in each of the five or six centuries immediately preceding our dissolution, when arose some vigorous intellect, boldly contending for those principles whose truth appears now, to our disenfranchised reason, so utterly obvious principles which should have taught our race to submit to the guidance of the natural laws, rather than attempt their control."
13610,"Here he found a shady road to Arkham, but no trail at all in the seaward direction he wished."
13611,"Influenced by the legends that Barry had related, my mind had in slumber hovered around a stately city in a green valley, where marble streets and statues, villas and temples, carvings and inscriptions, all spoke in certain tones the glory that was Greece."
13612,"I had become unfit for any intercourse, even with Woodville the most gentle and sympathizing creature that existed."
13613,"I stretched out my hand to him and cried, ""Are you, then, safe and Elizabeth and Ernest?"""
13614,I loved you as a human father might be supposed to love a daughter borne to him by a heavenly mother; as Anchises might have regarded the child of Venus if the sex had been changed; love mingled with respect and adoration.
13615,"Her own father had been an emigrant from another part of the country, and had died long since: they had no one relation to take them by the hand; they were outcasts, paupers, unfriended beings, to whom the most scanty pittance was a matter of favour, and who were treated merely as children of peasants, yet poorer than the poorest, who, dying, had left them, a thankless bequest, to the close handed charity of the land."
13616,"One of these things which excited several Miskatonic professors profoundly is a badly damaged monstrosity plainly resembling the strange image which Gilman gave to the college museum, save that it is larger, wrought of some peculiar bluish stone instead of metal, and possessed of a singularly angled pedestal with undecipherable hieroglyphics."
13617,"It remained unvisited till , when the continued absence of lights was noticed by the squatters."
13618,"But again when I reflected that they had spurned and deserted me, anger returned, a rage of anger, and unable to injure anything human, I turned my fury towards inanimate objects."
13619,"""That country and my beloved sister are all I have."
13620,"""Dear Duchess, with all my heart."""
13621,Each likens it not to the voice of an individual of any nation with whose language he is conversant but the converse.
13622,Human labour was wasted human life set at nought.
13623,"What I saw was an extended and elaborate array of ruined edifices; all of magnificent though unclassified architecture, and in various stages of preservation."
13624,"For a long time I have thought that each post would bring this line, and my persuasions have restrained my uncle from undertaking a journey to Ingolstadt."
13625,"Some of the sounds came from the south, yet I retained my design of escaping in that direction."
13626,"It had been locked, and I did not find the key till it occurred to me to examine the personal ring which the professor carried always in his pocket."
13627,"It is true, the populace retained themselves; but there arose a perpetual hum and bustle from the throng round the palace, which added to the noise of fireworks, the frequent explosion of arms, the tramp to and fro of horsemen and carriages, to which effervescence he was the focus, retarded his recovery."
13628,"During several hours I continued thus to meditate, till hunger and fatigue brought me back to the passing hour, then marked by long shadows cast from the descending sun."
13629,"From that casement one might see only walls and windows, except sometimes when one leaned far out and peered aloft at the small stars that passed."
13630,"There were the same luxurious smoothness of surface, the same scarcely perceptible tendency to the aquiline, the same harmoniously curved nostrils speaking the free spirit."
13631,"I gazed at this queenly apparition for at least half an hour, as if I had been suddenly converted to stone; and, during this period, I felt the full force and truth of all that has been said or sung concerning ""love at first sight."""
13632,The peak of the epidemic was reached in August.
13633,This was free only from the elbow to the hand.
13634,He exhibited a model of his invention at the Polytechnic Institution.
13635,"A gentleman, with his wife and daughter, engaged, about dusk, the services of six young men, who were idly rowing a boat to and fro near the banks of the Seine, to convey him across the river."
13636,"Against all attacks upon his purse he made the most sturdy defence; but the amount extorted from him, at last, was generally in direct ratio with the length of the siege and the stubbornness of the resistance."
13637,"""In this I am not sure that you are wrong,"" observed Dr. Templeton, ""but proceed."
13638,"September th, the ice began to move, and roarings like thunder were heard at a distance as the islands split and cracked in every direction."
13639,"From that time till his rescue on the th the man remembers little, and he does not even recall when William Briden, his companion, died."
13640,"In the meantime, Argyropylo, the Greek commander in chief, had advanced, so as to be between the Turks and Rodosto; a battle, it was said, was inevitable."
13641,"When Professor Angell became convinced that the sculptor was indeed ignorant of any cult or system of cryptic lore, he besieged his visitor with demands for future reports of dreams."
13642,"Swooning, I staggered to the opposite wall."
13643,"The scarabæus hung quite clear of any branches, and, if allowed to fall, would have fallen at our feet."
13644,Reason came unavailing to such high wrought feelings.
13645,"In , after the death of his mother, Sir Arthur Jermyn determined to pursue his investigations to the utmost extent."
13646,"Who is that secret lover, I ask, of whom, at least, most of the relatives know nothing?"
13647,"Often at night Iranon sang to the revellers, but he was always as before, crowned only with the vine of the mountains and remembering the marble streets of Aira and the hyaline Nithra."
13648,His father was a narrow minded trader and saw idleness and ruin in the aspirations and ambition of his son.
13649,"The sun might shine or the clouds might lower, but nothing could appear to me as it had done the day before."
13650,A larger man guided his steps; a repellent hulk whose bluish face seemed half eaten away by some unknown malady.
13651,"Have those gentle eyes, those ""channels of the soul"" lost their meaning, or do they only in their glare disclose the horrible tale of its aberrations?"
13652,"I asked myself the question aloud, and the whispering echoes of the chamber answered me, ""what was it?"""
13653,"Without warning came those deep, cracked, raucous vocal sounds which will never leave the memory of the stricken group who heard them."
13654,"Because I am Protector of England, am I to be the only slave in its empire?"
13655,"And what pretty scheme have you woven of exile and obscurity, while a brighter web, a gold enwoven tissue, is that which, in truth, you ought to contemplate?"""
13656,"""The salt"" I ejaculated."
13657,"We past down the steep hill, and entered the dusky avenue of the Long Walk."
13658,"It was still gruesomely dark when, not much over an hour later, a confused babel of voices sounded down the road."
13659,"The fanged, furry thing began tittering a continuation of the unknown ritual, while the witch croaked loathsome responses."
13660,"I need not go over the details of Von Kempelen's confession as far as it went and release, for these are familiar to the public."
13661,"And what, Margaret, will be the state of your mind?"
13662,"The Alps here come closer to the lake, and we approached the amphitheatre of mountains which forms its eastern boundary."
13663,"I was like a wild beast that had broken the toils, destroying the objects that obstructed me and ranging through the wood with a stag like swiftness."
13664,"I was possessed by a maddening rage when I thought of him, and desired and ardently prayed that I might have him within my grasp to wreak a great and signal revenge on his cursed head."
13665,"""While I was busied in reflection, my eyes fell upon a narrow ledge in the eastern face of the rock, perhaps a yard below the summit upon which I stood."
13666,"In these excursions he was usually accompanied by an old negro, called Jupiter, who had been manumitted before the reverses of the family, but who could be induced, neither by threats nor by promises, to abandon what he considered his right of attendance upon the footsteps of his young ""Massa Will."""
13667,Then there was another our first whose exact fate we had never learned.
13668,Hark here comes a troop of a similar description.
13669,"Drowsiness is so stifling, and dreams are so horrible. . . ."
13670,"There were lights inside the house when I came upon it, and I saw from the diamond window panes that it must have been kept very close to its antique state."
13671,"I looked; and a numbness, an iciness of feeling instantly pervaded my frame."
13672,"The Horror from the Shadows Many men have related hideous things, not mentioned in print, which happened on the battlefields of the Great War."
13673,"Suddenly that face became dim and quickly disappeared, and in a brief space I found myself projected against an obstacle which I could not penetrate."
13674,"Please to write 'Und sterb'ich doch, no sterb'ich denn Durch sie durch sie' ""That's German from Schiller."
13675,"Then I would loaf near the fire station in apparent casualness, and fall in with old Zadok after he had started on one of his frequent rambles."
13676,"Superfluities in height were, however, more than accounted for by deficiencies in other respects."
13677,"Oh, save me Save me"" I imagined that the monster seized me; I struggled furiously and fell down in a fit."
13678,The victim had been seen alive considerably after midnight the dawn revealed the unutterable thing.
13679,"Her tone expressed her entire indifference; she addressed me in English, and the voice struck me as one that I had heard during my sufferings."
13680,In his heart he wished for nothing more ardently than our union.
13681,Every one has been to the city of Edinburgh.
13682,"Any time the next morning you can call at the watch house and swear an assault."""
13683,"What we wanted were corpses interred soon after death and without artificial preservation; preferably free from malforming disease, and certainly with all organs present."
13684,"There one might find the rotting, bald pates of famous noblemen, and the fresh and radiantly golden heads of new buried children."
13685,To me this proceeding appeared if so light a term may be permitted extremely whimsical.
13686,"That idol, enshrined in the high temple at Ilarnek, was subsequently worshipped beneath the gibbous moon throughout the land of Mnar."
13687,I had begun my journey with anxious haste; now I desired to draw it out through the course of days and months.
13688,"""And were she,"" said Raymond, ""I would not advise her seeing him."
13689,"West's head was carried off by the wax headed leader, who wore a Canadian officer's uniform."
13690,"But these smaller and separate tragedies were about to yield to a mightier interest and, while we were promised calm from infectious influences, a tempest arose wilder than the winds, a tempest bred by the passions of man, nourished by his most violent impulses, unexampled and dire."
13691,"Moreover, my dungeon, as well as all the condemned cells at Toledo, had stone floors, and light was not altogether excluded."
13692,"But it must be borne in mind that the form of the moon's orbit being an ellipse of eccentricity amounting to no less than . of the major semi axis of the ellipse itself, and the earth's centre being situated in its focus, if I could, in any manner, contrive to meet the moon, as it were, in its perigee, the above mentioned distance would be materially diminished."
13693,The blackness of eternal night encompassed me.
13694,"I grew, day by day, more moody, more irritable, more regardless of the feelings of others."
13695,"And all the while there was a personal sensation of choking, as if some pervasive presence had spread itself through his body and sought to possess itself of his vital processes."
13696,"This work was not known to the fashionable clientele who had so swiftly built up his fame after his arrival in Boston; but was only too well known to me, who had been his closest friend and sole assistant since the old days in Miskatonic University Medical School at Arkham."
13697,"It was a peaceful Arcadian scene, but knowing what it hid I hated it."
13698,"Recieve then the grateful farewell of a fleeting shadow who is about to disappear, who joyfully leaves thee, yet with a last look of affectionate thankfulness."
13699,"It would contain more than forty thousand cubic feet of gas; would take me up easily, I calculated, with all my implements, and, if I managed rightly, with one hundred and seventy five pounds of ballast into the bargain."
13700,"But at the time of the scream in the cellar laboratory of the isolated Bolton cottage, our fears were subordinate to our anxiety for extremely fresh specimens."
13701,"It was not, however, until long after this time that the rays of the setting sun ceased to illumine the balloon; and this circumstance, although of course fully anticipated, did not fail to give me an infinite deal of pleasure."
13702,He looked on the structure of society as but a part of the machinery which supported the web on which his life was traced.
13703,"While thus occupied, she probably swooned, or possibly died, through sheer terror; and, in failing, her shroud became entangled in some iron work which projected interiorly."
13704,"These words are sufficiently vague, but differ materially from those of Le Commerciel."
13705,And the flames of the tripods expired.
13706,These stones had all been broken from their settings and thrown loose in the chest.
13707,"But as there is really no end to diddling, so there would be none to this essay, were I even to hint at half the variations, or inflections, of which this science is susceptible."
13708,It was also possible that the inhabitants of a given dimensional realm could survive entry to many unknown and incomprehensible realms of additional or indefinitely multiplied dimensions be they within or outside the given space time continuum and that the converse would be likewise true.
13709,Among these there was one which attracted my mother far above all the rest.
13710,"The widow of the unfortunate Count Berlifitzing was even heard to express a hope ""that the Baron might be at home when he did not wish to be at home, since he disdained the company of his equals; and ride when he did not wish to ride, since he preferred the society of a horse."""
13711,"The pavement from which he easily raised himself was of a veined, polished stone beyond his power to identify, and the tiles were cut in bizarre angled shapes which struck him as less asymmetrical than based on some unearthly symmetry whose laws he could not comprehend."
13712,"Some motive for which he did not account, even to himself, prevented him from relating his adventure to Perdita."
13713,"I believe, sir, that in this house it has been given a fair trial, if ever in any."
13714,It was a monotonous yet ever changing scene.
13715,"Yet this consideration does not, or rather did not in after time, diminish the reproaches of my conscience."
13716,"Having completed them to my satisfaction, I again looked toward the time piece and was half inclined to believe in the possibility of odd accidents when I found that, instead of my ordinary fifteen or twenty minutes, I had been dozing only three; for it still wanted seven and twenty of the appointed hour."
13717,"I sank to the ground, and my injurer, with increased swiftness, escaped into the wood."
13718,"While we were endeavoring to regain it, our attention being completely absorbed, we became involved in a strong current of wind from the East, which bore us, with rapidly increasing force, towards the Atlantic."
13719,"There was something grand and majestic in her motions, but nothing persuasive, nothing amiable."
13720,"I had gazed upon the fortifications and impediments that seemed to keep human beings from entering the citadel of nature, and rashly and ignorantly I had repined."
13721,"At the end of a week, however, she re appeared at her customary comptoir, as well as ever, with the exception of a slight paleness not altogether usual."
13722,"At this moment the door gently opens to the sound of soft music, and lo the most delicate of birds is before the most enamored of men But what inexpressible dismay now overshadows the countenance of the Duc? ""Horreur chien Baptiste l'oiseau ah, bon Dieu cet oiseau modeste que tu as déshabillé de ses plumes, et que tu as servi sans papier"" It is superfluous to say more: the Duc expired in a paroxysm of disgust."
13723,"An' all the whiles he never see a thing, only them trees an' bushes a bendin'."
13724,"The day was about to dawn; and it was thought expedient, at length, to proceed at once to the dissection."
13725,I was to thrust this selected and matchless friend into the post of danger impossible the die was cast I would offer myself as candidate.
13726,They were as baffling as the hordes of great bats which haunted the old manor house in unprecedented and increasing numbers.
13727,This thirst it appeared to be the design of my persecutors to stimulate: for the food in the dish was meat pungently seasoned.
13728,The cellars of the chateau were well stocked with wine; and these madmen are just the devils that know how to drink it.
13729,We accordingly determined to commence our journey towards the north at the expiration of another month.
13730,"Lavinia sobbed, but Wilbur only chuckled whilst the hill noises rumbled faintly."
13731,"I drank in joy with life; my steps were light; my eyes, clear from the love that animated them, sought the heavens, and with my long hair loosened to the winds I gave my body and my mind to sympathy and delight."
13732,Reluctantly he continued up to his garret room and sat down in the dark.
13733,"That he was overcome by the wine just swallowed, was the idea which most readily presented itself; and, rather with a view to the preservation of my own character in the eyes of my associates, than from any less interested motive, I was about to insist, peremptorily, upon a discontinuance of the play, when some expressions at my elbow from among the company, and an ejaculation evincing utter despair on the part of Glendinning, gave me to understand that I had effected his total ruin under circumstances which, rendering him an object for the pity of all, should have protected him from the ill offices even of a fiend."
13734,"But at the epoch of which I speak, the analogy which a casual observation of a star offered to the conclusions I had already drawn, struck me with the force of positive conformation, and I then finally made up my mind to the course which I afterwards pursued."
13735,"I am, however, in good spirits: my men are bold and apparently firm of purpose, nor do the floating sheets of ice that continually pass us, indicating the dangers of the region towards which we are advancing, appear to dismay them."
13736,"They presented the broken appearance which is manifested when a stiff paper, having been once folded and pressed with a folder, is refolded in a reversed direction, in the same creases or edges which had formed the original fold."
13737,"The mountain trembled to its very base, and the rock rocked."
13738,I shuddered to think who might be the next victim sacrificed to his insatiate revenge.
13739,"It is evident, however, that the gravities of the body, and of the bulk of water displaced, are very nicely balanced, and that a trifle will cause either to preponderate."
13740,"It was radiant with the quizzical expression which was its natural character, but which I had never seen it assume except when we were alone together, and when he unbent himself freely."
13741,"Awestruck at this unexpected glimpse into a past beyond the conception of the most daring anthropologist, I stood musing whilst the moon cast queer reflections on the silent channel before me."
13742,Nor did I dare look for that piece of strange jewellery said to be in the Miskatonic University Museum.
13743,"It doesn't seem to me that earth can hold a dream like that It was a colossal and nameless blasphemy with glaring red eyes, and it held in bony claws a thing that had been a man, gnawing at the head as a child nibbles at a stick of candy."
13744,"I was shewn into the attic chamber by a grave, intelligent looking man with quiet clothes and an iron grey beard, who spoke to me in this fashion: ""Yes, he lived here but I don't advise your doing anything."
13745,The conclusion here is absurd.
13746,We came at last to the road that led to the town of and at an inn there we heard that my father had passed by somewhat before sunset; he had observed the approaching storm and had hired a horse for the next town which was situated a mile from the sea that he might arrive there before it should commence: this town was five miles off.
13747,"Wilcox, I was sure, had heard of the cult in some casual way, and had soon forgotten it amidst the mass of his equally weird reading and imagining."
13748,"He was the hero of her imagination, the image carved by love in the unchanged texture of her heart."
13749,"""I very much fear it is so,"" replied Monsieur Maillard, now becoming excessively pale."
13750,"""The scrap of paper, you mean,"" said I. ""No; it had much of the appearance of paper, and at first I supposed it to be such, but when I came to draw upon it, I discovered it, at once, to be a piece of very thin parchment."
13751,"We could hardly doubt that, if pursued to the utmost, its palaces, its temples and store of wealth would be destroyed in the fury of contending triumph and defeat."
13752,"""Thou art a strange youth, and I like not thy face nor thy voice."
13753,"Dr. Barnard unbuckled the leathern harness and did not restore it till night, when he succeeded in persuading Slater to don it of his own volition, for his own good."
13754,"There was a cavernous fireplace and a spinning wheel at which a bent old woman in loose wrapper and deep poke bonnet sat back toward me, silently spinning despite the festive season."
13755,"I found this vision of beauty in Perdita's alcove, in earnest conversation with its inmate."
13756,"I must wait until I see the beetle itself, if I am to form any idea of its personal appearance."""
13757,"If many were prevented from adventuring to California, by the mere apprehension that gold would so materially diminish in value, on account of its plentifulness in the mines there, as to render the speculation of going so far in search of it a doubtful one what impression will be wrought now, upon the minds of those about to emigrate, and especially upon the minds of those actually in the mineral region, by the announcement of this astounding discovery of Von Kempelen?"
13758,"Here likewise a rambling letter to the editor of a paper in South America, where a fanatic deduces a dire future from visions he has seen."
13759,There were no less than ten windows in all.
13760,I must absent myself from all I loved while thus employed.
13761,"This bore regular fruit, for after the first interview the manuscript records daily calls of the young man, during which he related startling fragments of nocturnal imagery whose burden was always some terrible Cyclopean vista of dark and dripping stone, with a subterrene voice or intelligence shouting monotonously in enigmatical sense impacts uninscribable save as gibberish."
13762,"We, however, lay to until the morning, fearing to encounter in the dark those large loose masses which float about after the breaking up of the ice."
13763,Insurmountable heaps sometimes opposed themselves; the still burning fires scorched me.
13764,"On neither occasion, though, had Gilman been there and when told of the matter he wondered where he could have been wandering, barefoot and with only his night clothes on."
13765,"He quoted Turgot, Price, Priestly, Condorcet, De Stael, and the ""Ambitious Student in Ill Health."""
13766,"The children were easily distracted, and again returned to their prospect of future amusement."
13767,"We now had a studio in London, never separating, but never discussing the days when we had sought to plumb the mysteries of the unreal world."
13768,"After Taran Ish there were many high priests in Sarnath, but never was the sea green stone idol found."
13769,And is not love a gift of the divinity?
13770,"Worst of all, his absence now from the festival, his message wholly unaccounted for, except by the disgraceful hints of the woman, appeared the deadliest insult."
13771,"A purplish darkness, born of nothing more than a spectral deepening of the sky's blue, pressed down upon the rumbling hills."
13772,"Then, when the mist would lift and the sea stand out prosy with the smoke of steamers, he would sigh and descend to the town, where he loved to thread the narrow olden lanes up and down hill, and study the crazy tottering gables and odd pillared doorways which had sheltered so many generations of sturdy sea folk."
13773,"Then we were as gay as summer insects, playful as children; we ever met one another with smiles, and read content and joy in each other's countenances."
13774,Undoubtedly he could still manage to walk away from the pull; so with great resolution he headed against it and dragged himself deliberately north along Garrison Street.
13775,"Now, with a simpleton a degree above the first, he would have reasoned thus: 'This fellow finds that in the first instance I guessed odd, and, in the second, he will propose to himself, upon the first impulse, a simple variation from even to odd, as did the first simpleton; but then a second thought will suggest that this is too simple a variation, and finally he will decide upon putting it even as before."
13776,"As the old man whispered the words ""more the same"" a tiny spattering impact was heard, and something shewed on the yellowed paper of the upturned volume."
13777,No definition had spoken of the landscape gardener as of the poet; yet it seemed to my friend that the creation of the landscape garden offered to the proper Muse the most magnificent of opportunities.
13778,"Among her numerous suitors was Julien Bossuet, a poor litterateur, or journalist of Paris."
13779,"His end had plainly forgotten his beginning, like the government of Trinculo."
13780,"When he heard the sound of my approach, he ceased to utter exclamations of grief and horror and sprung towards the window."
13781,"Unless I had been animated by an almost supernatural enthusiasm, my application to this study would have been irksome and almost intolerable."
13782,"These prints, no doubt, surpass every thing in loudness of pretension, but, in all other points, give us the 'Lollipop' How this celebrated Magazine can sustain its evidently tremendous expenses, is more than we can comprehend."
13783,"Willingly do I give place to thee, dear Alfred advance, offspring of tender love, child of our hopes; advance a soldier on the road to which I have been the pioneer I will make way for thee."
13784,"There were the two sisters, the bride, and the artist the latter in one of his customary fits of moody misanthropy."
13785,"Indeed, to judge from the progression of the numbers indicating my various altitudes, respectively, at different periods, between six A.M. on the second of April, and twenty minutes before nine A.M. of the same day at which time the barometer ran down, it might be fairly inferred that the balloon had now, at four o'clock in the morning of April the seventh, reached a height of not less, certainly, than , miles above the surface of the sea."
13786,"And, indeed, I had now every reason to be terrified."
13787,"We learn that Mr. Mumblethumb received no less than fifty cents for his late 'Monody in a Mud Puddle.' ""Among the original contributors to the present number we notice, besides the eminent editor, Mr. Crab, such men as Snob, Slyass, and Mumblethumb."
13788,"As before, it was in vain that I, at first, endeavoured to appreciate or understand what was taking place."
13789,"England, seated far north in the turbid sea, now visits my dreams in the semblance of a vast and well manned ship, which mastered the winds and rode proudly over the waves."
13790,"It had evidently impressed the whole countryside more than a little, for mention was made of specimens in the museum of Miskatonic University at Arkham, and in the display room of the Newburyport Historical Society."
13791,They had deposited me in the coffin.
13792,These things were a hobby which he rode to the death.
13793,Fear had lurked on Tempest Mountain for more than a century.
13794,"In feeling my way I had found many angles, and thus deduced an idea of great irregularity; so potent is the effect of total darkness upon one arousing from lethargy or sleep The angles were simply those of a few slight depressions, or niches, at odd intervals."
13795,"Thus has a week passed away, while I have listened to the strangest tale that ever imagination formed."
13796,Its breadth at no point exceeds a quarter of a mile.
13797,"For the merits of my adaptation and translation must decide how far I have well bestowed my time and imperfect powers, in giving form and substance to the frail and attenuated Leaves of the Sibyl."
13798,"The cat followed me down the steep stairs, and, nearly throwing me headlong, exasperated me to madness."
13799,"With a presence of mind truly Parisian, she took the cue at once, and, to greet me, held out the most bewitchingly little of hands."
13800,"Yet we met; and fate bound us together at the altar, and I never spoke of passion nor thought of love."
13801,This lovely child was nearly eight years of age.
13802,"I shall make two divisions: first, Piquant Facts for the Manufacture of Similes, and, second, Piquant Expressions to be introduced as occasion may require."
13803,His family was one of the most illustrious of the empire.
13804,"Oral accounts of the mysterious and secluded wife had been numerous, but no tangible relic of her stay at Jermyn House remained."
13805,"The general furniture was profuse, comfortless, antique, and tattered."
13806,"The tension was aggravated by the disappearance of Müller and Zimmer, who undoubtedly committed suicide as a result of the fears which had seemed to harass them, though they were not observed in the act of jumping overboard."
13807,And am I not now dying a victim to the horror and the mystery of the wildest of all sublunary visions?
13808,"The fury of the beast, who no doubt bore still in mind the dreaded whip, was instantly converted into fear."
13809,In his summing up it seemed evident to me that the reasoner had not even succeeded in convincing himself.
13810,In all that I endured there was no physical suffering but of moral distress an infinitude.
13811,In our sensible age since the Dunwich horror of was hushed up by those who had the town's and the world's welfare at heart people shun it without knowing exactly why.
13812,"The praise of men, power and high aspirations attended your career."
13813,"We had many foreign friends whom we eagerly sought out, and relieved from dreadful penury."
13814,"In fact, amazement must have fairly deprived me of my senses, when I could not see the vast difference, in appearance, between the surface below me, and the surface of my mother earth."
13815,"""Is that all, my dear Henry?"
13816,"I only doubted whether or not I should endeavour to see Idris again, before I departed."
13817,"There was nothing within hearing, and nothing in sight save a vast reach of black slime; yet the very completeness of the stillness and the homogeneity of the landscape oppressed me with a nauseating fear."
13818,"I married early, and was happy to find in my wife a disposition not uncongenial with my own."
13819,"""But what purpose had you,"" I asked, ""in replacing the letter by a fac simile?"
13820,"He then came home, talked eternally, and played upon the French horn."
13821,"He admitted but four elementary principles, or more strictly, conditions of bliss."
13822,"She grieved to think that, having entombed her in the Valley of the Many Colored Grass, I would quit forever its happy recesses, transferring the love which now was so passionately her own to some maiden of the outer and everyday world."
13823,"That upstairs more ahead of me than I had thought it would be, and is not like to have much earth brain."
13824,"Upon recovering, I at once started to my feet, trembling convulsively in every fibre."
13825,"""Were it my purpose,"" continued Dupin, ""merely to make out a case against this passage of L'Etoile's argument, I might safely leave it where it is."
13826,"Steam had not been suffered to go down entirely, despite the departure of all hands for the shore; and it was the work of only a few moments of feverish rushing up and down between wheel and engines to get the Alert under way."
13827,"In an instant afterward, this man came forth, accosted my companion by name, shook him cordially by the hand, and begged him to alight."
13828,"Jupiter had with him the scythe and spades the whole of which he insisted upon carrying more through fear, it seemed to me, of trusting either of the implements within reach of his master, than from any excess of industry or complaisance."
13829,"Especially, there is nothing to be made in this way without method."
13830,"I am struck by the storm, rooted up, laid waste: but you can stand against it; you are young and your passions are at peace."
13831,This change was particularly agreeable to me.
13832,"I was not satisfied, however, with this, but continued the manipulations vigorously, and with the fullest exertion of the will, until I had completely stiffened the limbs of the slumberer, after placing them in a seemingly easy position."
13833,No serious accident occurred.
13834,"Et chez J. Goignard, au premier pilier de la grand'salle du Palais, proche les Consultations, MDCXLVII."""
13835,"The evilly grinning beldame still clutched him, and beyond the table stood a figure he had never seen before a tall, lean man of dead black colouration but without the slightest sign of negroid features; wholly devoid of either hair or beard, and wearing as his only garment a shapeless robe of some heavy black fabric."
13836,"As he walked through the wretched streets in the neighbourhood of the luckless Greek's abode, his heart smote him for the whole course of his conduct towards her."
13837,"Now, the assassination might have taken place upon the river's brink, or on the river itself; and, thus, the throwing the corpse in the water might have been resorted to, at any period of the day or night, as the most obvious and most immediate mode of disposal."
13838,"His natural thought would have been to cast from him, as far as possible, all that had held connection with his crime."
13839,"All this, it must be acknowledged, was very severe upon ""Oppodeldoc"" but the unkindest cut was putting the word sy in small caps."
13840,"From between them, upon every proper occasion, issued a voice of surpassing clearness, melody, and strength."
13841,Thus did this change come about.
13842,"He did not succeed, and motioned to me to come to his assistance."
13843,"My fancy grew charnel, I talked ""of worms, of tombs, and epitaphs."""
13844,Had there been a noise I had not heard?
13845,"He was bled, and many other of the ordinary means of relief were adopted."
13846,"He is desirous to be a true Swiss and to enter into foreign service, but we cannot part with him, at least until his elder brother returns to us."
13847,"About he removed to Constantinopolis, where he received every mark of imperial favour both from Justinianus and Justinus the Second."
13848,"But the gang which has drawn upon itself the pointed animadversion, although the somewhat tardy and very suspicious evidence of Madame Deluc, is the only gang which is represented by that honest and scrupulous old lady as having eaten her cakes and swallowed her brandy, without putting themselves to the trouble of making her payment."
13849,He wished me to seek amusement in society.
13850,"""What will you take for it?"""
13851,"Nature was the same, as when she was the kind mother of the human race; now, childless and forlorn, her fertility was a mockery; her loveliness a mask for deformity."
13852,I left London in a small vessel bound for a port in the north of England.
13853,He didn't call it out.
13854,"Its productions and features may be without example, as the phenomena of the heavenly bodies undoubtedly are in those undiscovered solitudes."
13855,"""Safie related that her mother was a Christian Arab, seized and made a slave by the Turks; recommended by her beauty, she had won the heart of the father of Safie, who married her."
13856,"In the strange anomaly of my existence, feelings with me, had never been of the heart, and my passions always were of the mind."
13857,"Barnabas Marsh that runs the refin'ry naow is Obed's grandson by his fust wife son of Onesiphorus, his eldest son, but his mother was another o' them as wa'n't never seed aoutdoors."
13858,"Thus my father, born in affluence, and always prosperous, clombe without the difficulty and various disappointments that all human beings seem destined to encounter, to the very topmost pinacle of happiness: Around him was sunshine, and clouds whose shapes of beauty made the prospect divine concealed from him the barren reality which lay hidden below them."
13859,Was he going mad? How long would it last?
13860,"""Alexandre Etienne, surgeon, was called with M. Dumas to view the bodies."
13861,"""You surprise me,"" I said, ""by these opinions, which have been contradicted by the voice of the world."
13862,"His father, Karl Trever, was an attorney and citizen of distinction, whilst his mother had made an enviable reputation as a poetess under her maiden name of Eleanor Wing."
13863,"He could not tell why he approached the farther wall so confidently, or why he instinctively drew forth the great silver key as he did so."
13864,"As I put a portion of it within my lips, there rushed to my mind a half formed thought of joy of hope."
13865,"As the presence of the three men seemed to rouse the dying thing, it began to mumble without turning or raising its head."
13866,The effect was beautiful to behold.
13867,The character of gorge was maintained only in the height and parallelism of the shores; it was lost altogether in their other traits.
13868,Suddenly I myself became possessed of a kind of augmented sight.
13869,"This he was in the act of uplifting, for what purpose I am at a loss to imagine, when, all at once, there came a benign smile over his features, and he sank placidly back in his chair."
13870,"The vast annihilation that has swallowed all things the voiceless solitude of the once busy earth the lonely state of singleness which hems me in, has deprived even such details of their stinging reality, and mellowing the lurid tints of past anguish with poetic hues, I am able to escape from the mosaic of circumstance, by perceiving and reflecting back the grouping and combined colouring of the past."
13871,"Remember that, beyond the naked fact of the catastrophe itself, I know nothing."
13872,"From the moment that he adopted this idea, he was changed."
13873,"He was a thin, stoop shouldered man not much under six feet tall, dressed in shabby blue civilian clothes and wearing a frayed grey golf cap."
13874,"I shudder tonight as I think of it; shudder even more than I did that morning when West muttered through his bandages, ""Damn it, it wasn't quite fresh enough"" III."
13875,"I felt that I quitted what I loved, not what loved me."
13876,"He had vanished, no one could tell how; and not even the ghost of him has ever been seen since."
13877,"""Pauline Dubourg, laundress, deposes that she has known both the deceased for three years, having washed for them during that period."
13878,Do you understand this feeling?
13879,"They were the blasphemous fish frogs of the nameless design living and horrible and as I saw them I knew also of what that humped, tiaraed priest in the black church basement had so fearsomely reminded me."
13880,Was certain it was not French.
13881,"It was amusing to think that creatures so diminutive as the lunarians, and bearing so little resemblance to humanity, yet evinced a mechanical ingenuity so much superior to our own."
13882,"For while I destroyed his hopes, I did not satisfy my own desires."
13883,People begun to fall off mills an' shops shet daown shippin' stopped an' the harbour choked up railrud give up but they . . .
13884,"The narrow transom admitted only the feeblest of rays, and the overhead ventilation funnel virtually none at all; so that he was reduced to a profane fumbling as he made his halting way among the long boxes toward the latch."
13885,"She leaned from the window looking on the forest, and the turrets of the Castle, and as these became hid by intervening objects, she passionately exclaimed ""Scenes of happiness scenes sacred to devoted love, when shall I see you again and when I see ye, shall I be still the beloved and joyous Perdita, or shall I, heart broken and lost, wander among your groves, the ghost of what I am"" ""Why, silly one,"" cried Raymond, ""what is your little head pondering upon, that of a sudden you have become so sublimely dismal?"
13886,Henry Clerval was the son of a merchant of Geneva.
13887,"It is an unfortunate fact that the bulk of humanity is too limited in its mental vision to weigh with patience and intelligence those isolated phenomena, seen and felt only by a psychologically sensitive few, which lie outside its common experience."
13888,"Before he went I used every argument, every persuasion to induce her to stop his journey."
13889,He was not his own master.
13890,"With this answer he seemed flattered, and sat down to write a note to the Baron."
13891,"""By casting your eye down almost any page of any book in the world, you will be able to perceive at once a host of little scraps of either learning or bel espritism, which are the very thing for the spicing of a Blackwood article."
13892,"Then came we to a pleasant coast gay with blossoms of every hue, where as far inland as we could see basked lovely groves and radiant arbours beneath a meridian sun."
13893,"'Delight of the Universe,' thou art in a sad predicament 'Glory of the East,' thou art in danger of mastication Therefore never regard so piteously thy tail; it will undoubtedly be draggled in the mud, and for this there is no help."
13894,"Still while I was near her, she could not be in utter despair she fully confided herself to me she did not seem to fear my death, or revert to its possibility; to my guardianship she consigned the full freight of her anxieties, reposing on my love, as a wind nipped fawn by the side of a doe, as a wounded nestling under its mother's wing, as a tiny, shattered boat, quivering still, beneath some protecting willow tree."
13895,I cannot describe to you my sensations on the near prospect of my undertaking.
13896,"Early rising villagers who observed my homeward progress looked at me strangely, and marvelled at the signs of ribald revelry which they saw in one whose life was known to be sober and solitary."
13897,Many of the foreigners were utterly destitute; and their increasing numbers at length forbade a recourse to the usual modes of relief.
13898,"""Felix seemed ravished with delight when he saw her, every trait of sorrow vanished from his face, and it instantly expressed a degree of ecstatic joy, of which I could hardly have believed it capable; his eyes sparkled, as his cheek flushed with pleasure; and at that moment I thought him as beautiful as the stranger."
13899,"I was lost in reveries of death, and the idea of premature burial held continual possession of my brain."
13900,"I shall not die of a cough."""
13901,Was I aware was I fully aware of the discrepancy between us?
13902,"Between the phantasms of nightmare and the realities of the objective world a monstrous and unthinkable relationship was crystallising, and only stupendous vigilance could avert still more direful developments."
13903,"The depth lies in the valleys where we seek her, and not upon the mountain tops where she is found."
13904,"I must die, yet my fear chills me; I pause and shudder and then for months I endure my excess of wretchedness."
13905,"First, Whether he will or will not consent to become a great man?"
13906,"""Jupiter,"" cried he, without heeding me in the least, ""do you hear me?"" ""Yes, Massa Will, hear you ebber so plain."""
13907,"In the one instance, the dreamer, or enthusiast, being interested by an object usually not frivolous, imperceptibly loses sight of this object in a wilderness of deductions and suggestions issuing therefrom, until, at the conclusion of a day dream often replete with luxury, he finds the incitamentum, or first cause of his musings, entirely vanished and forgotten."
13908,"It was torn nearly in two, across the middle as if a design, in the first instance, to tear it entirely up as worthless, had been altered, or stayed, in the second."
13909,"When, in after times, Adrian's father, then king of England, felt his situation become more perilous, his line of conduct more embarrassed, again and again he wished for his early friend, who might stand a mound against the impetuous anger of his queen, a mediator between him and the parliament."
13910,"In the morning, however, as soon as it was light, I went upon deck and found all the sailors busy on one side of the vessel, apparently talking to someone in the sea."
13911,"Attentively perusing this animated volume, I was the less surprised at the tale I read on the new turned page."
13912,"The Martense mansion was built in by Gerrit Martense, a wealthy New Amsterdam merchant who disliked the changing order under British rule, and had constructed this magnificent domicile on a remote woodland summit whose untrodden solitude and unusual scenery pleased him."
13913,"Some few of the legionarii shewed timidity, but sharp commands brought them into line, and the whole cohort was soon drawn up on the open plain east of the circus."
13914,"We cannot help perceiving abundance of filth in every kennel, and, were it not for the over powering fumes of idolatrous incense, I have no doubt we should find a most intolerable stench."
13915,"""Great God, what simpletons Shew them Arthur Machen's Great God Pan and they'll think it a common Dunwich scandal But what thing what cursed shapeless influence on or off this three dimensioned earth was Wilbur Whateley's father?"
13916,I knew the steady philosophy of the man too well to apprehend any scruples from him; and he had no relatives in America who would be likely to interfere.
13917,And thus the ill starred girl died a victim to my senseless rashness.
13918,In the first place I considered the manner in which the parchment had come into my possession.
13919,"And the bird of heaven flew before, and led us toward the basalt pillars of the West, but this time the oarsmen sang no soft songs under the full moon."
13920,"It had long been my belief that human thought consists basically of atomic or molecular motion, convertible into ether waves of radiant energy like heat, light, and electricity."
13921,"To be sure they spoke of confining me in a strait jacket but, good God they never suspected me of having lost my breath."
13922,The highest among them does not exceed three and three quarter miles in perpendicular elevation; but a map of the volcanic districts of the Campi Phlegraei would afford to your Excellencies a better idea of their general surface than any unworthy description I might think proper to attempt.
13923,"Thus long, I have cradled my heart in retrospection of past happiness, when hope was."
13924,"Rough and scabby, and the sides of their necks are all shrivelled or creased up."
13925,"""An outrage of the most atrocious character was perpetrated near this city the day before yesterday."
13926,What could not this man achieve in the busy English world?
13927,"There was, I knew, not a second to be lost."
13928,"""Every man,"" he said, ""dreams about something, love, honour, and pleasure; you dream of friendship, and devote yourself to a maniac; well, if that be your vocation, doubtless you are in the right to follow it."""
13929,"Get thee up Come with me into the outer Night, and let me unfold to thee the graves."
13930,"Her brow was clear and ample, her blue eyes cloudless, and her lips and the moulding of her face so expressive of sensibility and sweetness that none could behold her without looking on her as of a distinct species, a being heaven sent, and bearing a celestial stamp in all her features."
13931,"I shall no longer feel the agonies which now consume me or be the prey of feelings unsatisfied, yet unquenched."
13932,"The early writers of treatises on the Automaton, seem not to have observed the matter at all, and have no reference to it."
13933,"The crop had failed, the bad corn, and want of foreign wines, added vigour to disease."
13934,"It is in the former mode, however, and habitually, that you have already consented to wear it for my sake."""
13935,"He came to take leave of me, and we walked together on the heath for the last time."
13936,"I might heap high the scale with logic, courage, and resignation but let one fear for Idris and our children enter the opposite one, and, over weighed, it kicked the beam."
13937,I have spoken of two openings into the vale.
13938,"Upon a dim, warm, misty day, toward the close of November, and during the strange interregnum of the seasons which in America is termed the Indian Summer, Mr. Bedloe departed as usual for the hills."
13939,"In the middle of this extent was a depression, level with the ordinary floor of the valley."
13940,"The servants were utterly dumbfounded, and watched at the head of the stairs, but their master did not return."
13941,"He had composed a tragedy which set the whole country in a guffaw, and a farce which deluged the universe in tears."
13942,I cannot see your look of deep grief without endeavouring to restore you to happier feelings.
13943,"No, it is not thus; your form so divinely wrought, and beaming with beauty, has decayed, but your spirit still visits and consoles your unhappy friend."
13944,"I believe that the world has never seen and that, unless through some series of accidents goading the noblest order of mind into distasteful exertion, the world will never see that full extent of triumphant execution, in the richer domains of art, of which the human nature is absolutely capable."
13945,"Had a fine view of the five Neptunian asteroids, and watched with much interest the putting up of a huge impost on a couple of lintels in the new temple at Daphnis in the moon."
13946,"Sometimes I grew alarmed at the wreck I perceived that I had become; the energy of my purpose alone sustained me: my labours would soon end, and I believed that exercise and amusement would then drive away incipient disease; and I promised myself both of these when my creation should be complete."
13947,"West of that were the fine old residence streets Broad, Washington, Lafayette, and Adams and east of it were the shoreward slums."
13948,"They spoke of old Keziah Mason, and Elwood agreed that Gilman had good scientific grounds for thinking she might have stumbled on strange and significant information."
13949,"Distant though the island was, he felt that a monstrous and invincible evil could flow from the sardonic stare of that bent, ancient figure in brown."
13950,"Cxxl, nxw cxxl Dx be cxxl, yxu fxxl Nxne xf yxur crxwing, xld cxck Dxn't frxwn sx dxn't Dxn't hxllx, nxr hxwl, nxr grxwl, nxr bxw wxw wxw Gxxd Lxrd, Jxhn, hxw yxu dx lxxk Txld yxu sx, yxu knxw, but stxp rxlling yxur gxxse xf an xld pxll abxut sx, and gx and drxwn yxur sxrrxws in a bxwl' The uproar occasioned by this mystical and cabalistical article, is not to be conceived."
13951,I saw them now even more unequivocally than I beheld them then.
13952,"For some time his countenance had been losing the florid tinge lent it by the wine; but now, to my astonishment, I perceived that it had grown to a pallor truly fearful."
13953,"Let me go, or I will tell my papa.' ""'Boy, you will never see your father again; you must come with me.' ""'Hideous monster Let me go."
13954,"""It is done it is most cheerfully agreed."
13955,"There was room enough indeed in our hapless country for twice the number of invaders; but their lawless spirit instigated them to violence; they took a delight in thrusting the possessors from their houses; in seizing on some mansion of luxury, where the noble dwellers secluded themselves in fear of the plague; in forcing these of either sex to become their servants and purveyors; till, the ruin complete in one place, they removed their locust visitation to another."
13956,"""At this stage of my reflections I endeavored to remember, and did remember, with entire distinctness, every incident which occurred about the period in question."
13957,"We followed the local death notices like ghouls, for our specimens demanded particular qualities."
13958,Before this I was not unacquainted with the more obvious laws of electricity.
13959,"Coincidences ten times as remarkable as this the delivery of the money, and murder committed within three days upon the party receiving it, happen to all of us every hour of our lives, without attracting even momentary notice."
13960,"When he died, the tide of love resumed its ancient flow, it deluged her soul with its tumultuous waves, and she gave herself up a prey to its uncontrollable power."
13961,"A very few days sufficed, however, to merge even such feelings in sentiments more unendurable We could no longer apply to the strange orb any accustomed thoughts."
13962,You may remember that a history of all the voyages made for purposes of discovery composed the whole of our good Uncle Thomas' library.
13963,The feeblest intellect had derived vigor from excessive interest.
13964,"The impatience of my sister's disposition now returned on her, awakened by repentance, sharpened by remorse."
13965,"Flutes shrieked and drums began to beat, and as I watched in awe and terror I thought I saw dark saltant forms silhouetted grotesquely against the vision of marble and effulgence."
13966,"But it was all right with the heathens, because they'd ben havin' a hard time an' was desp'rate abaout everything."
13967,"Know that, one by one, my friends were snatched away; I was left desolate."
13968,Could it be that I was coming to resemble my grandmother and uncle Douglas?
13969,"I myself, lulled by the rhythmical breathing of the healthy and the dying man, must have nodded a little later."
13970,"The arms, the bosom, and even the ends of the radiant hair melted imperceptibly into the vague yet deep shadow which formed the back ground of the whole."
13971,"I had first Knowledge of the Doctor in May of the year , tho' I did not at that Time meet him."
13972,"But as my gondola arrived opposite the mouth of the canal San Marco, a female voice from its recesses broke suddenly upon the night, in one wild, hysterical, and long continued shriek."
13973,"And peradventure it may be that Oonai the city of lutes and dancing is even the fair Aira thou seekest, for it is told that thou hast not known Aira since old days, and a name often changeth."
13974,"If the men I have about me shrink from following me, others, more courageous, are to be found."
13975,"Notes on Same, Prof. Webb's Acct."""
13976,"The dining room itself, although perhaps sufficiently comfortable and of good dimensions, had nothing too much of elegance about it."
13977,"We had agreed to descend the Rhine in a boat from Strasbourg to Rotterdam, whence we might take shipping for London."
13978,"Instinct guided him in his wriggle through the transom, and in the crawl which followed his jarring thud on the damp ground."
13979,"In any case, I would aim to strike Washington somehow and get quickly out of the Town Square region."
13980,"I saw his eyes humid also as he took both my hands in his; and sitting down near me, he said: ""This is a sad deed to which you would lead me, dearest friend, and your woe must indeed be deep that could fill you with these unhappy thoughts."
13981,"He now rang the bell, and sent for a neighboring apothecary with whom to consult in the emergency."
13982,"""I know fellows,"" he says to himself, ""who would just have put the goods under their arm, and walked off with a promise to call and pay the dollar as they came by in the afternoon."""
13983,"Confinement and hardship had undermined his health; the Turks feared an accomplishment of the threats of the English government, if he died under their hands; they looked upon his recovery as impossible; they delivered him up as a dying man, willingly making over to us the rites of burial."
13984,"Much was expected of it; and as a few twitching motions began to appear, I could see the feverish interest on West's face."
13985,"It may appear strange that such should arise in the eighteenth century; but while I followed the routine of education in the schools of Geneva, I was, to a great degree, self taught with regard to my favourite studies."
13986,The mixture was then ready for use.
13987,I now began to be human.
13988,"Something whispers to me not to depend too much on the prospect that is opened before us, but I will not listen to such a sinister voice."
13989,It read as follows: MYSTERY DERELICT FOUND AT SEA Vigilant Arrives With Helpless Armed New Zealand Yacht in Tow.
13990,"We left none to represent us, none to repeople the desart land, and the name of England died, when we left her, In vagabond pursuit of dreadful safety."
13991,"It seems to be crowded with people perhaps there are three or four hundred passengers and yet it soars to an elevation of nearly a mile, looking down upon poor us with sovereign contempt."
13992,"Was I not justifiable in supposing with M. Valz, that this apparent condensation of volume has its origin in the compression of the same ethereal medium I have spoken of before, and which is only denser in proportion to its solar vicinity?"
13993,"Then without further remark, she threw herself on her couch, and closing her eyes remained motionless; so that but for the deep sighs that burst from her, it would have seemed that she slept."
13994,"His reply is this and never pretends to be any thing else than this ""Because it is impossible to conceive that contradictories can both be true."""
13995,"The conversation then reverted to Asiatic intelligence, and the ravages the plague made in its chief cities; conjectures were hazarded as to the progress that disease might have made in the besieged city."
13996,"At the same time the planted fields appear singularly few and barren; while the sparsely scattered houses wear a surprisingly uniform aspect of age, squalor, and dilapidation."
13997,"As Hermann completed this equivocal sentence, all eyes were turned upon the Baron."
13998,"I trod air; no doubt, no fear, no hope even, disturbed me; I clasped with my soul the fulness of contentment, satisfied, undesiring, beatified."
13999,"By slow degrees he recovered and ate a little soup, which restored him wonderfully."
14000,"By this time his pulse was imperceptible and his breathing was stertorous, and at intervals of half a minute."
14001,"She lay down among the tall corn, and fell asleep."
14002,"It is necessary that there be no chance of interruption there must be sufficient time given us to elude pursuit I will give it to be understood that I shall visit and spend the day with my aunt at the Rue des Drômes I well tell St. Eustache not to call for me until dark in this way, my absence from home for the longest possible period, without causing suspicion or anxiety, will be accounted for, and I shall gain more time than in any other manner."
14003,"Most of the puzzling was done after her early death, which took place at the birth of my grandmother her only child."
14004,"The windows were long, narrow, and pointed, and at so vast a distance from the black oaken floor as to be altogether inaccessible from within."
14005,"His head was stuck full of sable hearse plumes, which he nodded to and fro with a jaunty and knowing air; and, in his right hand, he held a huge human thigh bone, with which he appeared to have been just knocking down some member of the company for a song."
14006,"There was a rich widow disconsolate for the loss of her seventh husband, and to her wounded spirit I offered the balm of my vows."
14007,"Strange, that while the earth preserved her monotonous course, I dwelt with ever renewing wonder on her antique laws, and now that with excentric wheel she rushed into an untried path, I should feel this spirit fade; I struggled with despondency and weariness, but like a fog, they choked me."
14008,"Then more wood and brick grating, a pause, and the opening of the door at which I'll confess I started violently."
14009,"And now my own casual self suggestion that I might possibly be fool enough to confess the murder of which I had been guilty, confronted me, as if the very ghost of him whom I had murdered and beckoned me on to death."
14010,"""You, who call Frankenstein your friend, seem to have a knowledge of my crimes and his misfortunes."
14011,High above the toiling group the great swath trembled as its hellish maker re passed with snail like deliberateness.
14012,EH AHHHH AH E'YAAHHHH. . .
14013,"This point being settled, the Prefect broke forth at once into explanations of his own views, interspersing them with long comments upon the evidence; of which latter we were not yet in possession."
14014,Mathematics folklore the house old Keziah Brown Jenkin . . .
14015,"Warmer every minute, and the tissues can't last."
14016,He could not have failed to anticipate and events have proved that he did not fail to anticipate the waylayings to which he was subjected.
14017,"I lost not a moment, accordingly, in throwing overboard first my ballast, then my water kegs, then my condensing apparatus and gum elastic chamber, and finally every article within the car."
14018,"Had had 'em ages afore, but lost track o' the upper world arter a time."
14019,"The wretched female, loveless victim of vulgar brutality, had wandered to the toilet of high born beauty, and, arraying herself in the garb of splendour, had died before the mirror which reflected to herself alone her altered appearance."
14020,"After an hour his furtive taciturnity shewed signs of disappearing, but much to my disappointment he still sidetracked my questions about Innsmouth and its shadow haunted past."
14021,"The other manuscript papers were all brief notes, some of them accounts of the queer dreams of different persons, some of them citations from theosophical books and magazines notably W. Scott Elliot's Atlantis and the Lost Lemuria, and the rest comments on long surviving secret societies and hidden cults, with references to passages in such mythological and anthropological source books as Frazer's Golden Bough and Miss Murray's Witch Cult in Western Europe."
14022,Let him spend another sixteen years of desolate wandering: let him once more utter his wild complaints to the vast woods and the tremendous cataracts of another clime: let him again undergo fearful danger and soul quelling hardships: let the hot sun of the south again burn his passion worn cheeks and the cold night rains fall on him and chill his blood.
14023,But it is a still greater evil to me that I am self educated: for the first fourteen years of my life I ran wild on a common and read nothing but our Uncle Thomas' books of voyages.
14024,Presently we heard him descending.
14025,Perseverance: Your diddler perseveres.
14026,"Positively, there could not have intervened the tenth part of a second between the disengagement of the basket and its absolute and total disappearance with all that it contained."
14027,Its brilliant flowers look like a fairy dream but its fierce volcanoes like the passions of a turbulent heart.
14028,"A vast quantity of wheels, pinions, and other cabalistic looking machinery stood opposite the hole, close to it; and through the hole there passed an iron rod from the machinery."
14029,"It was deep; far deeper than anyone but Randolph suspected, for the boy had found a fissure in the farthermost black corner that led to a loftier grotto beyond a haunting sepulchral place whose granite walls held a curious illusion of conscious artifice."
14030,"Our lanterns disclosed the top of a flight of stone steps, dripping with some detestable ichor of the inner earth, and bordered by moist walls encrusted with nitre."
14031,"On the thirteenth day they reached the mountain's lonely base, and Atal spoke of his fears."
14032,"It seemed, therefore, that the effect of such escape was only sufficient to counterbalance the effect of some accelerating power."
14033,"I cannot think of the deep sea without shuddering at the nameless things that may at this very moment be crawling and floundering on its slimy bed, worshipping their ancient stone idols and carving their own detestable likenesses on submarine obelisks of water soaked granite."
14034,"By report she was known, I found, to all to many by sight but she had been in town only a few weeks, and there were very few, therefore, who claimed her personal acquaintance."
14035,Milder I half smiled in my agony as I thought of such application of such a term.
14036,"She enumerated their years of happiness; she brought before him past scenes of intimacy and happiness; she pictured their future life, she mentioned their child tears unbidden now filled her eyes."
14037,"She had a crotchet, but it was instinct with common sense, and gave pleasure to all who had the honor of her acquaintance."
14038,"Her health, and even the tranquillity of her hitherto constant spirit, had been shaken by what she had gone through."
14039,"As night approached I found myself at the entrance of the cemetery where William, Elizabeth, and my father reposed."
14040,"Every man for himself the devil take the protectorship, say I, if it expose me to danger"" ""Faint hearted man"" cried Adrian indignantly ""Your countrymen put their trust in you, and you betray them"" ""I betray them"" said Ryland, ""the plague betrays me."
14041,"The beauty, if I may so call it, of his art mystifique, lay in that consummate ability resulting from an almost intuitive knowledge of human nature, and a most wonderful self possession, by means of which he never failed to make it appear that the drolleries he was occupied in bringing to a point, arose partly in spite, and partly in consequence of the laudable efforts he was making for their prevention, and for the preservation of the good order and dignity of Alma Mater."
14042,"D'ye know, young Sir, I'm right sot on this un here."
14043,"""You speak of an almost forgotten dream,"" said Adrian, his countenance slightly clouding as he spoke; ""the visions of my boyhood have long since faded in the light of reality; I know now that I am not a man fitted to govern nations; sufficient for me, if I keep in wholesome rule the little kingdom of my own mortality."
14044,"I am weak, but surely the spirits who assist my vengeance will endow me with sufficient strength."""
14045,For the most part their enthusiasm is adopted to suit the time and opportunity to practise imposture upon the British and Austrian millionaires.
14046,But where was Perdita?
14047,In solitude only shall I be myself; in solitude I shall be thine.
14048,"In our road to the palace, we passed through the Greek cemetery; here on a tablet of black marble I caused him to be laid; the cypresses waved high above, their death like gloom accorded with his state of nothingness."
14049,"Trembling, I was unable to continue to look through the glass with which I had watched the motion of the crew, when the frigate's boat had first been launched."
14050,"""Consider now the circumstance that in the outer garment of the corpse when found, 'a slip, about a foot wide had been torn upward from the bottom hem to the waist wound three times round the waist, and secured by a sort of hitch in the back.'"
14051,"But although the appearance of an infected town was avoided, to me, who had not beheld it since the commencement of the visitation, London appeared sufficiently changed."
14052,"And thus all narratives upon this topic have an interest profound; an interest, nevertheless, which, through the sacred awe of the topic itself, very properly and very peculiarly depends upon our conviction of the truth of the matter narrated."
14053,"Free I had but escaped death in one form of agony, to be delivered unto worse than death in some other."
14054,"I invited him to walk with me, and led him to a neighbouring wood of beech trees whose light shade shielded us from the slant and dazzling beams of the descending sun After walking for some time in silence I seated my self with him on a mossy hillock It is strange but even now I seem to see the spot the slim and smooth trunks were many of them wound round by ivy whose shining leaves of the darkest green contrasted with the white bark and the light leaves of the young sprouts of beech that grew from their parent trunks the short grass was mingled with moss and was partly covered by the dead leaves of the last autumn that driven by the winds had here and there collected in little hillocks there were a few moss grown stumps about The leaves were gently moved by the breeze and through their green canopy you could see the bright blue sky As evening came on the distant trunks were reddened by the sun and the wind died entirely away while a few birds flew past us to their evening rest."
14055,"""What was it anyhaow, an' haowever did young Wizard Whateley call it aout o' the air it come from?"""
14056,"I paused for breath; and, in the meantime, an accident occurred of too momentous a nature in a moral, and also in a metaphysical point of view, to be passed over without notice."
14057,"I was on one of the highest seats, and saw him walk up the passage to the table of the speaker."
14058,"In about an hour after my arrival, to be sure, a single shaded solar lamp was lit in the principal drawing room; and this apartment, I could thus see, was arranged with unusual good taste and even splendor; but two other rooms of the suite, and in which the company chiefly assembled, remained, during the whole evening, in a very agreeable shadow."
14059,"""Indeed you astonish me"" ""We found it, sir,"" he said, with a sigh, ""absolutely necessary to return to the old usages."
14060,Pundit is in ecstacies.
14061,"""Oh, do not listen to him,"" I cried, ""he speaks false false to himself,"" I was interrupted: and, silence being restored, we were ordered, as was the custom, to retire during the decision of the house."
14062,"""Those Whateleys meant to let them in, and the worst of all is left Tell Rice and Morgan we must do something it's a blind business, but I know how to make the powder. . . ."
14063,"With the best heart in the world, he contrived, through a predominant whim of contradiction, to earn for himself, among those who only knew him superficially, the character of a curmudgeon."
14064,"She had been proud of having won and preserved him but another had won him from her, and her exultation was as cold as a water quenched ember."
14065,"Listen to me, and let yourself be softened by words in which no selfish passion lingers."
14066,"They counted the garrison; it was impossible that it should be relieved; each sally was a victory; for, even when the Turks were triumphant, the loss of men they sustained was an irreparable injury."
14067,I could not refuse; for Clara was not an ordinary child; her sensibility and intelligence seemed already to have endowed her with the rights of womanhood.
14068,"From my position, which was far above the level of the town, I could perceive its every nook and corner, as if delineated on a map."
14069,In a few words I must conclude this tragedy.
14070,"In no instance before that of which I speak, have I known the habitual mystific escape the natural consequence of his manoevres an attachment of the ludicrous to his own character and person."
14071,"But, in fact, the one atrocity, known to be so committed, is, if any thing, evidence that the other, committed at a time nearly coincident, was not so committed."
14072,The only question then is of the manner in which human agency is brought to bear.
14073,"He not only shut his mouth and wagged his tail, but absolutely offered me his paw afterward extending his civilities to Ponto."
14074,"But they were the property of Adrian, the nurslings of Idris; and so, although my imagination rendered sensual by privation, made me think that they would better become the spit in my kitchen, than the green leaves of the forest, Nathelesse, I checked my haughty will, and did not eat; but supped upon sentiment, and dreamt vainly of ""such morsels sweet,"" as I might not waking attain."
14075,"Its condition was almost perfect, and one could have spent hours in studying the striking and puzzlingly untraditional designs some simply geometrical, and some plainly marine chased or moulded in high relief on its surface with a craftsmanship of incredible skill and grace."
14076,"To the truth of this observation the burgomaster assented, and the matter was therefore at an end."
14077,"That sunset was very beautiful, but the peasants at Ballylough had warned me against it and said that Kilderry had become accursed, so that I almost shuddered to see the high turrets of the castle gilded with fire."
14078,"There had been something wrong with the engine, despite the excellent time made from Newburyport, and the bus could not complete the journey to Arkham."
14079,"I can recall the scene in these final moments the pale autumnal moon over the graves, casting long horrible shadows; the grotesque trees, drooping sullenly to meet the neglected grass and the crumbling slabs; the vast legions of strangely colossal bats that flew against the moon; the antique ivied church pointing a huge spectral finger at the livid sky; the phosphorescent insects that danced like death fires under the yews in a distant corner; the odours of mould, vegetation, and less explicable things that mingled feebly with the night wind from over far swamps and seas; and worst of all, the faint deep toned baying of some gigantic hound which we could neither see nor definitely place."
14080,"""It was noon when I awoke, and allured by the warmth of the sun, which shone brightly on the white ground, I determined to recommence my travels; and, depositing the remains of the peasant's breakfast in a wallet I found, I proceeded across the fields for several hours, until at sunset I arrived at a village."
14081,"Doubtless you have both heard the current tale; perhaps believe the slander; but he is not mad Were an angel from the foot of God's throne to assert it, never, never would I believe it."
14082,"In fact, now that the idea of contest was dismissed, all hearts returned to their former respect and admiration of our accomplished friend."
14083,"""My amazement was, of course, extreme."
14084,My reward shall be this.
14085,"Once on a frosty day, pushed on by restless unsatisfying reflections, I sought a favourite haunt, a little wood not far distant from Salt Hill."
14086,"That which he considered chief, was strange to say the simple and purely physical one of free exercise in the open air."
14087,"This feeling of universal misery assumed concentration and shape, when I looked on my wife and children; and the thought of danger to them possessed my whole being with fear."
14088,And where does he now exist?
14089,"He has never seen Kingsport again, for his family disliked the funny old houses, and complained that the drains were impossibly bad."
14090,"I put her in one of these, and entered with her that I might secure her entrance into the hospital."
14091,"We scudded with frightful velocity before the sea, and the water made clear breaches over us."
14092,"Then I glimpsed the temple like effect again, but this time the pillars reached up into an aërial ocean of light, which sent down one blinding beam along the path of the cloudy column I had seen before."
14093,"But if these machines were ingenious, what shall we think of the calculating machine of Mr. Babbage?"
14094,"I had entered into the universal feeling I had been absorbed by the terrors of Rosse I re echoed the cry of Macduff, and then rushed out as from an hell of torture, to find calm in the free air and silent street."
14095,This his selected task was exchanged for the far different one of encountering the ruin caused by the convulsions of physical nature.
14096,There were no degrees which could break my fall from happiness to misery; it was as the stroke of lightning sudden and entire.
14097,It was with difficulty that he reconciled his dreamy and incoherent feelings with the certainty of being awake.
14098,"On this occasion I chanced to say that I thought Myrrha the best of Alfieri's tragedies; as I said this I chanced to cast my eyes on my father and met his: for the first time the expression of those beloved eyes displeased me, and I saw with affright that his whole frame shook with some concealed emotion that in spite of his efforts half conquered him: as this tempest faded from his soul he became melancholy and silent."
14099,"If pride guided you, or even reason, you might well reject me."
14100,How and why should I doubt it for an instant.
14101,"Time is no more, for I have stepped within the threshold of eternity; each man I meet appears a corse, which will soon be deserted of its animating spark, on the eve of decay and corruption."
14102,"The Turks resisted to the last, the garrison perished on the ramparts, and we entered by assault."
14103,"Mr. Ellison's first step regarded, of course, the choice of a locality, and scarcely had he commenced thinking on this point, when the luxuriant nature of the Pacific Islands arrested his attention."
14104,"Human it could not have been it is not in man to make such sounds and without a thought of our late employment or its possible discovery both West and I leaped to the nearest window like stricken animals; overturning tubes, lamp, and retorts, and vaulting madly into the starred abyss of the rural night."
14105,"It was always shadowy along that river, as if the smoke of neighbouring factories shut out the sun perpetually."
14106,"This hoary character, Zadok Allen, was ninety six years old and somewhat touched in the head, besides being the town drunkard."
14107,"Say, rather, a point in the vague infinity."
14108,"Above all, he was remorseless and unyielding in the pursuit of any object of desire, however lawless."
14109,"And as the torches died out altogether, there remained above the stricken and shrieking cohort only the noxious and horrible altar flames on the towering peaks; hellish and red, and now silhouetting the mad, leaping, and colossal forms of such nameless beasts as had never a Phrygian priest or Campanian grandam whispered of in the wildest of furtive tales."
14110,"A well dressed individual enters a shop, makes a purchase to the value of a dollar; finds, much to his vexation, that he has left his pocket book in another coat pocket; and so says to the shopkeeper ""My dear sir, never mind; just oblige me, will you, by sending the bundle home?"
14111,My Day book and Ledger will evince this in a minute.
14112,Evil thoughts became my sole intimates the darkest and most evil of thoughts.
14113,"In the mean time we were joined by Clara, whose pallid cheek and scared look shewed the deep impression grief had made on her young mind."
14114,In this lies the principal security from inhumation.
14115,"Pundit is the only conversible person on board; and he, poor soul can speak of nothing but antiquities."
14116,"I would obtain the truth from her the following day in the mean time But, while I was occupied by multiplying reflections, Lord Raymond returned."
14117,"And yet I am happy; mothers lament their children, wives lose their husbands, while you and my children are left to me."
14118,"Nevertheless, about noon, a slight but remarkable agitation became apparent in the assembly: the clattering of ten thousand tongues succeeded; and, in an instant afterward, ten thousand faces were upturned toward the heavens, ten thousand pipes descended simultaneously from the corners of ten thousand mouths, and a shout, which could be compared to nothing but the roaring of Niagara, resounded long, loudly, and furiously, through all the environs of Rotterdam."
14119,"He sat for some time inactive, nodding oddly, but having a paradoxical suggestion of intense and frightened listening."
14120,"What we want, we may make about us; and what we don't want, we may sweep away."
14121,Have you no brain whereby you may recognise the will which has through six long centuries fulfilled the dreadful curse upon your house?
14122,"He has already had one or two little WIVES, but Louisa Biron is his favourite, a pretty little girl of five years of age."
14123,The scene of my excavations would alone have been enough to unnerve any ordinary man.
14124,"Three years of folly, passed without profit, had but given me rooted habits of vice, and added, in a somewhat unusual degree, to my bodily stature, when, after a week of soulless dissipation, I invited a small party of the most dissolute students to a secret carousal in my chambers."
14125,"But we, the seven there assembled, having seen the shadow as it came out from among the draperies, dared not steadily behold it, but cast down our eyes, and gazed continually into the depths of the mirror of ebony."
14126,"I applied my glass, and could discern that the frigate had already cast anchor, fearful of the danger of approaching nearer to a lee shore: a boat was lowered; with a pang I saw that Raymond was unable to descend the vessel's side; he was let down in a chair, and lay wrapt in cloaks at the bottom of the boat."
14127,"Great watery spaces opened out before me, and I seemed to wander through titanic sunken porticos and labyrinths of weedy Cyclopean walls with grotesque fishes as my companions."
14128,"Have we not a perpetual inclination, in the teeth of our best judgment, to violate that which is Law, merely because we understand it to be such?"
14129,"The Englishman thinks it the voice of a German, and 'does not understand German.'"
14130,"It seems that in both instances the dying person, in a gentle old lady named Stafford and in a school teacher of middle age named Eleazar Durfee, became transfigured in a horrible way; glaring glassily and attempting to bite the throat of the attending physician."
14131,"Wilson's rebellion was to me a source of the greatest embarrassment; the more so as, in spite of the bravado with which in public I made a point of treating him and his pretensions, I secretly felt that I feared him, and could not help thinking the equality which he maintained so easily with myself, a proof of his true superiority; since not to be overcome cost me a perpetual struggle."
14132,I had certainly acted imprudently.
14133,"I made no doubt that the latter had been infected with some of the innumerable Southern superstitions about money buried, and that his phantasy had received confirmation by the finding of the scarabæus, or, perhaps, by Jupiter's obstinacy in maintaining it to be ""a bug of real gold."""
14134,I stay here; force only can remove me.
14135,"Talks with several students of archaic lore in Boston, and letters to many others elsewhere, gave him a growing amazement which passed slowly through varied degrees of alarm to a state of really acute spiritual fear."
14136,"Picking up my pack, I started for the crest of the eminence."
14137,"The criticism which says, of sculpture or portraiture, that here nature is to be exalted or idealized rather than imitated, is in error."
14138,"When I was otherwise quite restored to health, the sight of a chemical instrument would renew all the agony of my nervous symptoms."
14139,"Duty came first; and although there must have been nearly a hundred mongrel celebrants in the throng, the police relied on their firearms and plunged determinedly into the nauseous rout."
14140,To England and to Englishmen I dedicate myself.
14141,"The small room seemed green with a dim aqueous light, and Olney saw that the far windows to the east were not open, but shut against the misty aether with dull thick panes like the bottoms of old bottles."
14142,His demeanour would assume an unwonted grace and even dignity; and the sodden creatures around him would sense something of superiority something which made them less ready to give the usual kicks and cuffs to the poor butt and drudge.
14143,"If you are normal, that is the way you ought to get most of it . . ."
14144,"Putting on a mask of black silk, and drawing a roquelaire closely about my person, I suffered him to hurry me to my palazzo."
14145,"The apartments were restored to their pristine splendour, and the park, all disrepairs restored, was guarded with unusual care."
14146,"Then, on Wednesday, the great shock came."
14147,"Mr. Blackwood has a pair of tailor's shears, and three apprentices who stand by him for orders."
14148,"""Oh, shocking"" groaned the Earl."
14149,With him there is no determinate progression.
14150,"But though impenetrably veiled from him, his public office permitted her to become acquainted with all his actions, his daily course of life, even his conversation."
14151,"Looming hideously against the spectral moon was a gigantic misshapen thing not to be imagined save in nightmares a glassy eyed, ink black apparition nearly on all fours, covered with bits of mould, leaves, and vines, foul with caked blood, and having between its glistening teeth a snow white, terrible, cylindrical object terminating in a tiny hand."
14152,"Out the window I could see the blue water and the sandy line of Plum Island, and we presently drew very near the beach as our narrow road veered off from the main highway to Rowley and Ipswich."
14153,"Though of poetic rather than scientific temperament, he planned to continue the work of his forefathers in African ethnology and antiquities, utilising the truly wonderful though strange collection of Sir Wade."
14154,"It was the sight of Little Marlow, and my conversations with Martha, that led me to the plan I formed."
14155,"The slightest deviations from the true proportion and these deviations were omni prævalent affected me just as violations of abstract truth were wont, on earth, to affect the moral sense."
14156,Who shall conceive the horrors of my secret toil as I dabbled among the unhallowed damps of the grave or tortured the living animal to animate the lifeless clay?
14157,"She rushed towards him, she embraced him, blessing God for his preservation."
14158,His ordinary manner had vanished.
14159,"This being done, there is no reason why the body of the man may not resume its former situation for the cupboard is again so dark as to defy scrutiny."
14160,"While I was directing that the necessary care should be taken of her, Clara came in; she was trembling and pale; and, when I anxiously asked her the cause of her agitation, she threw herself into my arms weeping and exclaiming ""Uncle, dearest uncle, do not hate me for ever I must tell you, for you must know, that Evelyn, poor little Evelyn"" her voice was choked by sobs."
14161,There are surely other worlds than this other thoughts than the thoughts of the multitude other speculations than the speculations of the sophist.
14162,"""Glad ye was nigh the haouse en' hed the sense ta come right in."
14163,"Do you remember in her infancy, with what transport you beheld Clara, recognizing in her the united being of yourself and Raymond; joying to view in this living temple a manifestation of your eternal loves."
14164,"She perceived me, and looked up enquiringly; her half glance of hope was misery; the words died before I could articulate them; I felt a ghastly smile wrinkle my lips."
14165,Adrian welcomed us on our arrival.
14166,"When I told this dream to Barry we both laughed; but I laughed the louder, because he was perplexed about his labourers from the north."
14167,Is it not possible that the germ of an actual contagious madness lurks in the depths of that shadow over Innsmouth?
14168,"With angry gestures he leapt from his horse, and seizing a hatchet that hung from his saddle bow, went with the apparent intention of battering down the opposing gate."
14169,"As he picked up the strange spiky image on the table he thought the older northward pull grew a trifle stronger; but even so, it was wholly overruled by the newer and more bewildering urge."
14170,"There was no one in the soaking street, and in all the world there was no one I dared tell."
14171,My greatest dread was in re crossing broad and moonlit South Street with its seaward view and I had to nerve myself for the ordeal.
14172,There was a sound at the moment as if of several persons struggling a scraping and scuffling sound.
14173,"Lay down your arms, barbarous and cruel men men whose hands are stained with the blood of the innocent, whose souls are weighed down by the orphan's cry We shall conquer, for the right is on our side; already your cheeks are pale the weapons fall from your nerveless grasp."
14174,"He rode through the lines, charging the officers to restrain the troops, exhorting the soldiers, restoring order, and quieting in some degree the violent agitation that swelled every bosom."
14175,"""The result was precisely what I had hoped it might be."
14176,"Thus, when G detailed to us his mode of searching the premises at the Hotel D , I felt entire confidence in his having made a satisfactory investigation so far as his labors extended."""
14177,"The statuette, idol, fetish, or whatever it was, had been captured some months before in the wooded swamps south of New Orleans during a raid on a supposed voodoo meeting; and so singular and hideous were the rites connected with it, that the police could not but realise that they had stumbled on a dark cult totally unknown to them, and infinitely more diabolic than even the blackest of the African voodoo circles."
14178,"Yet, henceforward art thou also dead dead to the World, to Heaven and to Hope In me didst thou exist and, in my death, see by this image, which is thine own, how utterly thou hast murdered thyself."""
14179,"I thought the room and the books and the people very morbid and disquieting, but because an old tradition of my fathers had summoned me to strange feastings, I resolved to expect queer things."
14180,"Upon its front were characters engraven in the stone; and I walked through the morass of water lilies, until I came close unto the shore, that I might read the characters upon the stone."
14181,"But now the time is come when I may quit life, I have a friend who will not refuse to accompany me in this dark journey; such is my request: earnestly do I entreat and implore you to die with me."
14182,She devoted herself to those whom she had been taught to call her uncle and cousins.
14183,"They found the countryside in great agitation, both because of the growing rumblings beneath the domed hills, and because of the unwonted stench and the surging, lapping sounds which came increasingly from the great empty shell formed by Whateley's boarded up farmhouse."
14184,Miss Tabitha Turnip propagated that report through sheer envy.
14185,"For several years I had been subject to attacks of the singular disorder which physicians have agreed to term catalepsy, in default of a more definitive title."
14186,Around the first of April Gilman worried considerably because his slow fever did not abate.
14187,"He is name de Napoleon Bonaparte Froissart, and I suppose you say dat dat, too, is not von ver respectable name."""
14188,"I handed my adored wife out, and ordered breakfast forthwith."
14189,"But most of the men of Teloth yawned, and some laughed and some went away to sleep; for Iranon told nothing useful, singing only his memories, his dreams, and his hopes."
14190,"The revolution itself must, of course, have taken place in an easy and gradual manner, and it is by no means clear that, had I even been awake at the time of the occurrence, I should have been made aware of it by any internal evidence of an inversion that is to say, by any inconvenience or disarrangement, either about my person or about my apparatus."
14191,She presented all the ordinary appearances of death.
14192,"This was to be my realm, too I could not escape it."
14193,"At Paris, just after dark one gusty evening in the autumn of , I was enjoying the twofold luxury of meditation and a meerschaum, in company with my friend C. Auguste Dupin, in his little back library, or book closet, au troisiême, No. , Rue Dunôt, Faubourg St. Germain."
14194,"The crone now motioned him to hold the bowl in a certain position while she raised the huge, grotesque knife above the small white victim as high as her right hand could reach."
14195,"South of him the frightful precipice above Kingsport, north of him the vertical drop of nearly a mile to the river's mouth."
14196,"If the band played, involuntarily they chose airs of moderated passion; the farewell of love, or lament at absence, was followed and closed by some solemn hymn, which harmonized with the tranquil loveliness of evening, and elevated the soul to grand and religious thought."
14197,"Grey headed men, ye hoped for yet a few years in your long known abode but the lease is up, you must remove children, ye will never reach maturity, even now the small grave is dug for ye mothers, clasp them in your arms, one death embraces you"" Shuddering, he stretched out his hands, his eyes cast up, seemed bursting from their sockets, while he appeared to follow shapes, to us invisible, in the yielding air ""There they are,"" he cried, ""the dead They rise in their shrouds, and pass in silent procession towards the far land of their doom their bloodless lips move not their shadowy limbs are void of motion, while still they glide onwards."
14198,"You have spoken nothing, my Oinos, for which pardon is to be demanded."
14199,"Ven I go marry my segonde usbande, Monsieur Lalande, at dat time I had de portraite take for my daughter by my first usbande, Monsieur Moissart"" ""Moissart"" said I. ""Yes, Moissart,"" said she, mimicking my pronunciation, which, to speak the truth, was none of the best, ""and vat den?"
14200,"We copy the following account of it from the Letters before mentioned of Dr. B., who derived his information principally from the Edinburgh Encyclopaedia."
14201,"I found difficulty in moving toward the stair well, but when I did get there I found no crushed body on the floor below."
14202,"Again, with a gush of pride and delight, she marked in the features of her little girl, the same smile of beauty that often irradiated Raymond's countenance."
14203,I know not; despair had not yet taken possession of me; my feelings were those of rage and revenge.
14204,"""of Chantilly,"" said he, ""why do you pause?"
14205,"Heh, heh Nobody never believes me naow when I tell 'em, an' I dun't s'pose you will, young feller though come to look at ye, ye hev kind o' got them sharp readin' eyes like Obed had."""
14206,"Fortunately we had storage batteries still capable of long use, both for interior lighting and for the searchlight."
14207,Yet it remained tense through anxiety for me.
14208,"""About a foot below one of the side windows was a circular opening, eight inches in diameter, and fitted with a brass rim adapted in its inner edge to the windings of a screw."
14209,"Hieroglyphics had covered the walls and pillars, and from some undetermined point below had come a voice that was not a voice; a chaotic sensation which only fancy could transmute into sound, but which he attempted to render by the almost unpronounceable jumble of letters, ""Cthulhu fhtagn""."
14210,"I am but half a soldier; I love the renown, but not the trade of war."
14211,"After the lapse of a few weeks, we left Dunkeld."
14212,"Having conquered the violence of his feelings, he appeared to despise himself for being the slave of passion; and quelling the dark tyranny of despair, he led me again to converse concerning myself personally."
14213,"As soon as he had gammoned him sufficiently, he let him out, and sent him about his business."""
14214,"There are some passages of his description, nevertheless, which may be quoted for their details, although their effect is exceedingly feeble in conveying an impression of the spectacle."
14215,"Ryland was the popular candidate; when Lord Raymond was first added to the list, his chance of success appeared small."
14216,"For an impersonal doctor, Davis' ominous and awestruck cross examination became very strange indeed as he sought to drain from the weakened undertaker every least detail of his horrible experience."
14217,"""They built a wall between them and the world"" Without, a thousand harpies raved, remorse and misery, expecting the destined moment for their invasion."
14218,"Any one so constituted will readily so conduct himself, upon occasion of real excitement, as to render himself liable to suspicion on the part of the over acute, or the ill disposed."
14219,"In taking leave of me, Mr. B. made a proposition for the purchase of the paper when written; but as he could offer me only fifty guineas a sheet, I thought it better to let our society have it, than sacrifice it for so paltry a sum."
14220,The touch of brain fever and the dreams began early in February.
14221,"So once more the White Ship followed the bird of heaven, over warm blessed seas fanned by caressing, aromatic breezes."
14222,"""This suspense is a thousand times worse than the most horrible event; tell me what new scene of death has been acted, and whose murder I am now to lament?"" ""Your family is perfectly well,"" said Mr. Kirwin with gentleness; ""and someone, a friend, is come to visit you."""
14223,"Once or twice I saw listless looking people working in barren gardens or digging clams on the fishy smelling beach below, and groups of dirty, simian visaged children playing around weed grown doorsteps."
14224,He personated his assumption of innocence even to self deception.
14225,The rubbish on the floor was picked up with the minutest care.
14226,"I attempted to speak, but the words died away on my lips."
14227,Why do you not execrate the rustic who sought to destroy the saviour of his child?
14228,"One night he went flying over dark mountains where there were faint, lone campfires at great distances apart, and strange, shaggy herds with tinkling bells on the leaders; and in the wildest part of this hilly country, so remote that few men could ever have seen it, he found a hideously ancient wall or causeway of stone zigzagging along the ridges and valleys; too gigantic ever to have risen by human hands, and of such a length that neither end of it could be seen."
14229,My rather original ideas regarding life and death had caused me to associate the cold clay with the breathing body in a vague fashion; and I felt that the great and sinister family of the burned down mansion was in some way represented within the stone space I sought to explore.
14230,"In ten minutes my mind was made up, and taking my hat I set out for home, where I bathed, ate, and gave by telephone an order for a pickaxe, a spade, a military gas mask, and six carboys of sulphuric acid, all to be delivered the next morning at the cellar door of the shunned house in Benefit Street."
14231,His reputation so he said with a peculiarly Parisian air was at stake.
14232,"In my first attempts at composition I found the stanzas to ""The Oil of Bob"" rather a draw back than otherwise."
14233,At last we lost sight of Plum Island and saw the vast expanse of the open Atlantic on our left.
14234,"They met the things on the little islet with the queer ruins, an' it seems them awful picters o' frog fish monsters was supposed to be picters o' these things."
14235,"It was I who fled frantically out of Innsmouth in the early morning hours of July , , and whose frightened appeals for government inquiry and action brought on the whole reported episode."
14236,"To return was out of the question, and no time was to be lost, as their pursuers were close upon their heels."
14237,"Not even the mines of precious metal remained, for DOOM had come to Sarnath."
14238,"I told you the servants left, but I didn't tell you how."
14239,"At first the syllables defied all correlation with any speech of earth, but toward the last there came some disjointed fragments evidently taken from the Necronomicon, that monstrous blasphemy in quest of which the thing had perished."
14240,"""Ah, hereupon turns the whole mystery; although the secret, at this point, I had comparatively little difficulty in solving."
14241,"Sleep was not sleep, for her waking thoughts, bridled by some remains of reason, and by the sight of her children happy and in health, were then transformed to wild dreams, all her terrors were realized, all her fears received their dread fulfilment."
14242,There can be no doubt that the consciousness of the rapid increase of my superstition for why should I not so term it?
14243,"By eleven, very little labor was necessary at the apparatus; and at twelve o'clock, with some hesitation, I ventured to unscrew the tourniquet, when, finding no inconvenience from having done so, I finally threw open the gum elastic chamber, and unrigged it from around the car."
14244,"It was possible, I thought, that, concealed in some obscure corner, or lurking in some closet or drawer, might be found the lost object of my inquiry."
14245,"The truth is, I never dabbled in flashy matters, but jogged on in the good old sober routine of the calling a calling in which I should, no doubt, have remained to the present hour, but for a little accident which happened to me in the prosecution of one of the usual business operations of the profession."
14246,"He looked on the peasant, who began to tremble, while he still gazed; his knees knocked together; his teeth chattered."
14247,"As soon as I sufficiently recovered my senses to comprehend the terrific predicament in which I stood or rather hung, I exerted all the power of my lungs to make that predicament known to the æronaut overhead."
14248,So far good but let us turn over another paper.
14249,"I continued walking in this manner for some time, endeavouring by bodily exercise to ease the load that weighed upon my mind."
14250,"The country people in the neighborhood visitors coming to see the establishment would have given the alarm."""
14251,This tiara was neither.
14252,"I dwelt upon it with a pertinacity of attention as if, in so dwelling, I could arrest here the descent of the steel."
14253,There was no way the law or anything else could reach the society.
14254,But since those glorious years all is changed.
14255,"When you have read these hastily scrawled pages you may guess, though never fully realise, why it is that I must have forgetfulness or death."
14256,"Showed that, I should say, to some purpose, in the late tremendous swamp fight away down South, with the Bugaboo and Kickapoo Indians."""
14257,"WE are not to be insulted with impunity."""
14258,"A sense of duty to science is all that impels me to recall, in these last years of my life, scenes and happenings fraught with a terror doubly acute because I cannot wholly define it."
14259,"I approached and saw, as if graven in bas relief upon the white surface, the figure of a gigantic cat."
14260,"These, although of ordinary width for some eight or ten feet above the hearths, will not admit, throughout their extent, the body of a large cat."
14261,Death approaches; and the shadow which foreruns him has thrown a softening influence over my spirit.
14262,"The man had now admitted that he sometimes talked queerly, though he knew not why."
14263,"You perceive, then, why it is that I write you this letter it is on account of my ennui and your sins."
14264,"Here is a watercolor drawing, which I should have shown you before, but which an unaccountable sentiment of horror has hitherto prevented me from showing."""
14265,"Near the hut, close to a rather unusual rock fissure, had lain two skeletons, newly picked by vultures, and presumably forming the sole remains of his parents."
14266,"I knew not who I was or what I was, or what my surroundings might be; though as I continued to stumble along I became conscious of a kind of fearsome latent memory that made my progress not wholly fortuitous."
14267,"But the little chap seized him at once by the nose; gave it a swing and a pull; clapped the big chapeau de bras upon his head; knocked it down over his eyes and mouth; and then, lifting up the big fiddle, beat him with it so long and so soundly, that what with the belfry man being so fat, and the fiddle being so hollow, you would have sworn that there was a regiment of double bass drummers all beating the devil's tattoo up in the belfry of the steeple of Vondervotteimittiss."
14268,"Nearly mad, I found myself yet able to throw out a hand to ward off the foetid apparition which pressed so close; when in one cataclysmic second of cosmic nightmarishness and hellish accident my fingers touched the rotting outstretched paw of the monster beneath the golden arch."
14269,"But now, at last, he had not only found an accessible copy but had made it his own at a ludicrously low figure."
14270,"When I had accomplished this, it was fully midnight, and I requested the gentlemen present to examine M. Valdemar's condition."
14271,"Why, all his virtues are derived from his station only; because he is rich, he is called generous; because he is powerful, brave; because he is well served, he is affable."
14272,Yet I dreaded to witness the anguish which my resolve might excite in Idris.
14273,Had my eyes deceived me?
14274,Leaves the Square front of Hammond's Drug Store at a.m. and p.m. unless they've changed lately.
14275,"I was troubled; a mist came over my eyes, and I felt a faintness seize me, but I was quickly restored by the cold gale of the mountains."
14276,"Like Adam, I was apparently united by no link to any other being in existence; but his state was far different from mine in every other respect."
14277,"Professor Rice declares that he wholly lost consciousness for an instant, though he did not stumble or fall."
14278,"At these moments I often endeavoured to put an end to the existence I loathed, and it required unceasing attendance and vigilance to restrain me from committing some dreadful act of violence."
14279,"It had run down at seven o'clock We were behind the time of the slack, and the whirl of the Ström was in full fury ""When a boat is well built, properly trimmed, and not deep laden, the waves in a strong gale, when she is going large, seem always to slip from beneath her which appears very strange to a landsman and this is what is called riding, in sea phrase."
14280,"I dun't think he aimed at fust to do no mixin', nor raise no younguns to take to the water an' turn into fishes with eternal life."
14281,"After so much time spent in painful labour, to arrive at once at the summit of my desires was the most gratifying consummation of my toils."
14282,He had come in an aëroplane piloted by the intrepid Lieut.
14283,"There is a countenance which haunts me, turn as I will."
14284,"In looking around me for some subject by whose means I might test these particulars, I was brought to think of my friend, M. Ernest Valdemar, the well known compiler of the ""Bibliotheca Forensica,"" and author under the nom de plume of Issachar Marx of the Polish versions of ""Wallenstein"" and ""Gargantua."""
14285,"In the same way, the angle formed by the rope with the vertical axis of the machine, indicates the velocity."
14286,"""Henri Duval, a neighbor, and by trade a silver smith, deposes that he was one of the party who first entered the house."
14287,"Nothing was heard for some time; just how long Soames cannot exactly estimate; but it was certainly less than a quarter of an hour later that the horrible scream, undoubtedly in Jermyn's voice, was heard."
14288,"We French are not nearly so punctilious as you Americans, and I shall have no difficulty in smuggling you in, in the character of an old acquaintance."""
14289,"The Greeks wept for joy when they beheld the Mediterranean from the hills of Asia, and hailed with rapture the boundary of their toils."
14290,"""You have travelled; you have spent several years of your life at Ingolstadt; and I confess to you, my friend, that when I saw you last autumn so unhappy, flying to solitude from the society of every creature, I could not help supposing that you might regret our connection and believe yourself bound in honour to fulfil the wishes of your parents, although they opposed themselves to your inclinations."
14291,"However it might be just as well to roll him once or twice in the gutter, and then put him in charge of the police."
14292,"Mrs. Wyatt had been closely veiled; and when she raised her veil, in acknowledging my bow, I confess that I was very profoundly astonished."
14293,She took me under her protection because she considered it her duty; but she had too long lived alone and undisturbed by the noise and prattle of children to allow that I should disturb her quiet.
14294,"The manuscript was divided into two sections, the first of which was headed "" Dream and Dream Work of H. A. Wilcox, Thomas St., Providence, R.I."", and the second, ""Narrative of Inspector John R. Legrasse, Bienville St., New Orleans, La., at A. A. S. Mtg."
14295,"But I was saved by the very thunder that had summoned it, for after a hideous wait there burst from the unseen outside sky one of those frequent mountainward bolts whose aftermath I had noticed here and there as gashes of disturbed earth and fulgurites of various sizes."
14296,"It was his twin brother, but it looked more like the father than he did."""
14297,"The immediate peril urged them to seize the immediate opportunity; wildly and passionately they sought to know what delights existence afforded, before they yielded to death, and Snatching their pleasures with rough strife Thorough the iron gates of life, they defied the conquering pestilence to destroy what had been, or to erase even from their death bed thoughts the sentiment of happiness which had been theirs."
14298,"There were recent rumours, too, with a baffling and disconcerting amount of agreement."
14299,"I was unwilling to trust myself with a race of people who had offered, to the cursory glance I had taken, so many points of vague novelty, doubt, and apprehension."
14300,I mentioned some time ago the bending of a studding sail.
14301,"Later it developed that he was none other than Lord Northam, of whose ancient hereditary castle on the Yorkshire coast so many odd things were told; but when Williams tried to talk of the castle, and of its reputed Roman origin, he refused to admit that there was anything unusual about it."
14302,My hand was already on the lock of the door before I recollected myself.
14303,"Yet, strange to say, I beheld vast level regions of a character decidedly alluvial, although by far the greater portion of the hemisphere in sight was covered with innumerable volcanic mountains, conical in shape, and having more the appearance of artificial than of natural protuberance."
14304,But perhaps it would be as well that he should call again.
14305,It is a matter of course.
14306,"As his argument is obviously an ex parte one, he should, at least, have left this matter out of sight; for had any one been known to see Marie, say on Monday, or on Tuesday, the interval in question would have been much reduced, and, by his own ratiocination, the probability much diminished of the corpse being that of the grisette."
14307,He endeavours to fill me with hope and talks as if life were a possession which he valued.
14308,"The magic of a lovely form in woman the necromancy of female gracefulness was always a power which I had found it impossible to resist, but here was grace personified, incarnate, the beau ideal of my wildest and most enthusiastic visions."
14309,"When we saw them from the rear of the house, they were both about half open that is to say, they stood off at right angles from the wall."
14310,"""Be happy, my dear Victor,"" replied Elizabeth; ""there is, I hope, nothing to distress you; and be assured that if a lively joy is not painted in my face, my heart is contented."
14311,He seemed to cherish a mild grief and softer emotions although sad as a relief from despair He contrived in many ways to nurse his melancholy as an antidote to wilder passion.
14312,"The attachment between them led to the ill fated marriage, of which I was the offspring."
14313,"What a sea is the tide of passion, whose fountains are in our own nature Our virtues are the quick sands, which shew themselves at calm and low water; but let the waves arise and the winds buffet them, and the poor devil whose hope was in their durability, finds them sink from under him."
14314,"In the chaos of sliding, shifting earth I clawed and floundered helplessly till the rain on my head steadied me and I saw that I had come to the surface in a familiar spot; a steep unforested place on the southwest slope of the mountain."
14315,His brow was of the coldness of ice.
14316,It was in one of the most open and least frequented parts of the broad Pacific that the packet of which I was supercargo fell a victim to the German sea raider.
14317,"To tear a piece off from such fabric, two distinct forces, in different directions, will be, in almost every case, required."
14318,"""No what?"" said his majesty ""come, sir, strip"" ""Strip, indeed very pretty i' faith no, sir, I shall not strip."
14319,"There was much of the beautiful, much of the wanton, much of the bizarre, something of the terrible, and not a little of that which might have excited disgust."
14320,"Come to the window and be quiet."""
14321,"And you, my friend, would be far more amused with the journal of Clerval, who observed the scenery with an eye of feeling and delight, than in listening to my reflections."
14322,"""Now if you're game, I'll take you there tonight."
14323,Such a thing was surely not a physical or biochemical impossibility in the light of a newer science which includes the theories of relativity and intra atomic action.
14324,"I guess they're what they call 'white trash' down South lawless and sly, and full of secret doings."
14325,"Why do you not hate Felix, who drove his friend from his door with contumely?"
14326,"Grecian maidens will in devotion strew flowers on his tomb, and make the air around it resonant with patriotic hymns, in which his name will find high record."""
14327,"""Und you ave pelief in me, te Angel of te Odd?"" I nodded again."
14328,But these struggles and these gasps would not occur in the body 'thrown into the water immediately after death by violence.'
14329,"Notwithstanding the good offices of the Doctor, and the strenuous exertions of the association to get itself into notice, it met with no very great success until I joined it."
14330,"The horror would appear to pop out of the rat hole in the corner and patter toward him over the sagging, wide planked floor with evil expectancy in its tiny, bearded human face but mercifully, this dream always melted away before the object got close enough to nuzzle him."
14331,Armington helped Birch to the outside of a spare bed and sent his little son Edwin for Dr. Davis.
14332,But I must put you au fait to the details necessary in composing what may be denominated a genuine Blackwood article of the sensation stamp the kind which you will understand me to say I consider the best for all purposes.
14333,"Although I pronounced, with great promptness, that the true title was Man Friday, and not by any means Man Fred, yet when I returned to seek Mrs."
14334,"Old, white bearded, and ragged, my host possessed a countenance and physique which inspired equal wonder and respect."
14335,"Sometimes a lone poet or traveller would come to view them, and would try to picture them in their vanished glory; yet of such travellers and poets there were not many."
14336,"This morrow at last came, that is to say, a day finally dawned upon a long and weary night of impatience; and then the hours until ""one"" were snail paced, dreary, and innumerable."
14337,"He did not say that he should favour such an attempt; but he did say that such an attempt would be venial; and, if the aspirant did not go so far as to declare war, and erect a standard in the kingdom, his fault ought to be regarded with an indulgent eye."
14338,It impressed me deeply.
14339,"Shortly after sunrise, I found myself accordingly at his Palazzo, one of those huge structures of gloomy, yet fantastic pomp, which tower above the waters of the Grand Canal in the vicinity of the Rialto."
14340,My friends are about holding a little musical levee.
14341,"Armitage, half ready to tell him he might make a copy of what parts he needed, thought suddenly of the possible consequences and checked himself."
14342,"The Turk, amazed and delighted, endeavoured to kindle the zeal of his deliverer by promises of reward and wealth."
14343,"This late winter night there had been such a match; evidently with disastrous results, since two timorous Poles had come to us with incoherently whispered entreaties to attend to a very secret and desperate case."
14344,At this impatience she smiled.
14345,"In the morning I had been reading Glover's ""Leonidas,"" Wilkie's ""Epigoniad,"" Lamartine's ""Pilgrimage,"" Barlow's ""Columbiad,"" Tuckermann's ""Sicily,"" and Griswold's ""Curiosities""; I am willing to confess, therefore, that I now felt a little stupid."
14346,"And then, by some miracle finding the door and the large wooden bolt, I plunged wildly away from that glassy eyed thing in the dark, and from the ghoulish howling of that accursed viol whose fury increased even as I plunged."
14347,I remembered also the necessity imposed upon me of either journeying to England or entering into a long correspondence with those philosophers of that country whose knowledge and discoveries were of indispensable use to me in my present undertaking.
14348,The elastic nature of the clasp garter is self demonstration of the unusualness of the abbreviation.
14349,"Having lost these artificial settings, their lives grew void of direction and dramatic interest; till at length they strove to drown their ennui in bustle and pretended usefulness, noise and excitement, barbaric display and animal sensation."
14350,"Thus it is evident that we can assign no period, with any thing like accuracy, at which the corpse shall rise through decomposition."
14351,"It is the loveliest thing in creation"" ""What?"
14352,"Whether he professes to play chess or not, we are not informed."
14353,From the moment of my mother's death untill his departure she never heard him utter a single word: buried in the deepest melancholy he took no notice of any one; often for hours his eyes streamed tears or a more fearful gloom overpowered him.
14354,I saw that the crescent was designed to cross the region of the heart.
14355,I believe that without the slightest tinge of a bad heart she had the coldest that ever filled a human breast: it was totally incapable of any affection.
14356,"""It was Asaph's coffin, Birch, just as I thought I knew his teeth, with the front ones missing on the upper jaw never, for God's sake, shew those wounds The body was pretty badly gone, but if ever I saw vindictiveness on any face or former face. . . ."
14357,"The place had dispirited me curiously that evening, and I was almost prepared when I saw or thought I saw amidst the whitish deposits a particularly sharp definition of the ""huddled form"" I had suspected from boyhood."
14358,"Besides, they really knew very little; for wide salt marshes, desolate and unpeopled, keep neighbours off from Innsmouth on the landward side."
14359,"This one consisted in a forehead so unusually and hideously lofty, as to have the appearance of a bonnet or crown of flesh superadded upon the natural head."
14360,These people blinded themselves by details.
14361,"I think that the professor, too, intended to keep silent regarding the part he knew, and that he would have destroyed his notes had not sudden death seized him."
14362,"The figure before me was short but exquisitely proportioned, and clad in somewhat formal dress of perfect cut and fit."
14363,"They darted almost noiselessly through the underbrush, and the astonished watcher seemed to think they were entirely unclothed."
14364,"When they proceeded on the path of the Ram, their course was scarcely as straight as a ram's horn, for they never had an axiom which was an axiom at all."
14365,"You know, in ordinary art, there's all the difference in the world between the vital, breathing things drawn from Nature or models and the artificial truck that commercial small fry reel off in a bare studio by rule."
14366,The crew pace the deck with unquiet and tremulous step; but there is upon their countenances an expression more of the eagerness of hope than of the apathy of despair.
14367,"Would I not like the guidance of one long practiced in these explorations, and possessed of local information profoundly deeper than any which an obvious newcomer could possibly have gained?"
14368,"But she has confessed."""
14369,"Our vessels truly were the sport of winds and waves, even as Gulliver was the toy of the Brobdignagians; but we on our stable abode could not be hurt in life or limb by these eruptions of nature."
14370,"Instead, he pondered deeply, and made many plans for the following day."
14371,"He himself was generally as terrified and baffled as his auditors, and within an hour after awakening would forget all that he had said, or at least all that had caused him to say what he did; relapsing into a bovine, half amiable normality like that of the other hill dwellers."
14372,"I have lost you, myself, my life"" ""Do you not believe me?"" said Raymond haughtily."
14373,"Granting that on my passage I should meet with atmosphere essentially the same as at the surface of the earth, I conceived that, by means of the very ingenious apparatus of M. Grimm, I should readily be enabled to condense it in sufficient quantity for the purposes of respiration."
14374,"By the way, talking of Latin, can any one tell me the meaning of quocunque or what is the meaning of modo?"
14375,"The wind shrieked more horribly, and both the Syracusans and the Arcadians prayed to Aiolos."
14376,"In a squalid thieves' den an entire family had been torn to shreds by an unknown thing which left no trace, and those around had heard all night above the usual clamour of drunken voices a faint, deep, insistent note as of a gigantic hound."
14377,"I intend to be a warrior, a conqueror; Napoleon's name shall vail to mine; and enthusiasts, instead of visiting his rocky grave, and exalting the merits of the fallen, shall adore my majesty, and magnify my illustrious achievements."""
14378,"Looking for the youth Vercellius, our guide, we found only a crumpled heap weltering in a pool of blood."
14379,"Outside the window the shrilling of the whippoorwills had suddenly ceased, and above the murmurs of the gathering crowd there came the sound of a panic struck whirring and fluttering."
14380,"He professed excessive astonishment, of course, but congratulated me most cordially, and proffered every assistance in his power."
14381,"And one night a mighty gulf was bridged, and the dream haunted skies swelled down to the lonely watcher's window to merge with the close air of his room and make him a part of their fabulous wonder."
14382,"In fact, the blood so long accumulating in the vessels of my head and throat, and which had hitherto buoyed up my spirits with madness and delirium, had now begun to retire within their proper channels, and the distinctness which was thus added to my perception of the danger, merely served to deprive me of the self possession and courage to encounter it."
14383,"I know that light is not for me, save that of the moon over the rock tombs of Neb, nor any gaiety save the unnamed feasts of Nitokris beneath the Great Pyramid; yet in my new wildness and freedom I almost welcome the bitterness of alienage."
14384,"She entered the cottages of the sick; she relieved their wants with her own hand; she betrayed no fear, and inspired all who saw her with some portion of her own native courage."
14385,A diplomatist: one among the pleasure seeking society of a gay city; a youth of promise; favourite of the Ambassador.
14386,"The market place is empty, the candidate for popular favour finds none whom he can represent."
14387,"The other exalted personages whom you behold are all of our family, and wear the insignia of the blood royal under the respective titles of 'His Grace the Arch Duke Pest Iferous' 'His Grace the Duke Pest Ilential' 'His Grace the Duke Tem Pest' and 'Her Serene Highness the Arch Duchess Ana Pest.' ""As regards,"" continued he, ""your demand of the business upon which we sit here in council, we might be pardoned for replying that it concerns, and concerns alone, our own private and regal interest, and is in no manner important to any other than ourself."
14388,"Fool, they are harmless But the servants are gone, aren't they?"
14389,"Conceive, closely congregated, a million of the largest and most resplendent tulips Only thus can the reader get any idea of the picture I would convey."
14390,Meanwhile all went on well in London.
14391,"I did not like it, and debated whether I had better try to sleep at all."
14392,"Last night had a fine view of Alpha Lyrae, whose disk, through our captain's spy glass, subtends an angle of half a degree, looking very much as our sun does to the naked eye on a misty day."
14393,Was sure that they had no servant in employ.
14394,"It terminated like the former; though something approaching to a ray, we could not tell whence, shed a very doubtful twilight in the space."
14395,"In groping my way around the prison, I could not fail to encounter this rag upon completing the circuit."
14396,"In good time came to my rescue the spirit of despair, and, with frantic cries and struggles, I jerked my way bodily upwards, till at length, clutching with a vise like grip the long desired rim, I writhed my person over it, and fell headlong and shuddering within the car."
14397,He secluded himself as much as the duties of his station permitted.
14398,"Idris hardly recognized the fragile being, whose form had seemed to bend even to the summer breeze, in the energetic man, whose very excess of sensibility rendered him more capable of fulfilling his station of pilot in storm tossed England."
14399,"Begging me to be seated, he entered at once upon the subject of my poem; but modesty will ever forbid me to repeat the thousand compliments which he lavished upon me."
14400,Raymond replied; but there was nothing conciliatory in his reply.
14401,"This claim she resisted, and a judicial tribunal sustained her in her resistance, deciding that the peculiar circumstances, with the long lapse of years, had extinguished, not only equitably, but legally, the authority of the husband."
14402,This spot had for me peculiar charms.
14403,"He had dipped in the ""Diable"" of Abbé Gualtier."
14404,"In his hand was a short sword snatched from the belt of D. Vibulanus, a subcenturio, and on his face was such a look of terror that the stoutest veterans turned pale at the sight."
14405,At first he refused to stay to hear her.
14406,"The love that is the soul of friendship is a soft spirit seldom found except when two amiable creatures are knit from early youth, or when bound by mutual suffering and pursuits; it comes to some of the elect unsought and unaware; it descends as gentle dew on chosen spots which however barren they were before become under its benign influence fertile in all sweet plants; but when desired it flies; it scoffs at the prayers of its votaries; it will bestow, but not be sought."
14407,"This no human creature may do; for lacking the fellowship of the living, he inevitably draws upon the companionship of things that are not, or are no longer, living."
14408,"I went so far as to talk casually to Barry on the subject, but did not dare continue after he gave his resounding laugh."
14409,"""And now I do not fear death."
14410,"Thus years passed on; and years only added fresh love of freedom, and contempt for all that was not as wild and rude as myself."
14411,"The nearness of this place to London was such, as to take away the idea of painful separation, when we quitted Raymond and Perdita."
14412,His sole thought is immediate escape.
14413,It was very certain that I could not do without sleep; but I might easily bring myself to feel no inconvenience from being awakened at intervals of an hour during the whole period of my repose.
14414,"No more than any other talent, is that for music susceptible of complete enjoyment, where there is no second party to appreciate its exercise."
14415,"The ringing became more distinct: It continued and became more distinct: I talked more freely to get rid of the feeling: but it continued and gained definiteness until, at length, I found that the noise was not within my ears."
14416,"A murder so mysterious, and so perplexing in all its particulars, was never before committed in Paris if indeed a murder has been committed at all."
14417,"""Hem ahem rather civil that, I should say"" said the bundle, in one of the smallest, and altogether the funniest little voices, between a squeak and a whistle, that I ever heard in all the days of my existence."
14418,"This hope arose partly from memory, and partly from present observation."
14419,"I was glad I had chosen to walk, for the white village had seemed very beautiful from the hill; and now I was eager to knock at the door of my people, the seventh house on the left in Green Lane, with an ancient peaked roof and jutting second story, all built before ."
14420,"During the colder months there was a general rush to London in search of amusement the ties of public opinion were loosened; many were rich, heretofore poor many had lost father and mother, the guardians of their morals, their mentors and restraints."
14421,"As I entered the abode of the friend so suddenly metamorphosed to a shivering gargoyle, I became infected with the terror which seemed stalking in all the shadows."
14422,"The truth is, we are usually the recipients in such case."""
14423,"My uncle will send me news of your health, and if I see but one smile on your lips when we meet, occasioned by this or any other exertion of mine, I shall need no other happiness."
14424,"Merrival did not join in this conversation; drawing near Idris, he proceeded to assure her that the joyful prospect of an earthly paradise after an hundred thousand years, was clouded to him by the knowledge that in a certain period of time after, an earthly hell or purgatory, would occur, when the ecliptic and equator would be at right angles."
14425,"I brought them, however, after some trouble, at right angles to the body of the buckle, and was glad to find them remain firm in that position."
14426,It was one of those lovely winter days which assert the capacity of nature to bestow beauty on barrenness.
14427,"Unable to endure the aspect of the being I had created, I rushed out of the room and continued a long time traversing my bed chamber, unable to compose my mind to sleep."
14428,Briden pushed at the stone in several places without result.
14429,"I had never seen the good old negro look so dispirited, and I feared that some serious disaster had befallen my friend."
14430,"It is true that the necessaries of life were assembled in such quantities, as to supply to superfluity the wants of the diminished population; but still much labour was required to arrange these, as it were, raw materials; and depressed by sickness, and fearful of the future, we had not energy to enter boldly and decidedly on any system."
14431,"Sometimes she remembered that she had suffered keen anguish, when he hesitated in his choice."
14432,"Extinguishing all lights, we proceeded to the door and threw it suddenly open; whereupon we felt an unaccountable rush of air, and heard as if receding far away a queer combination of rustling, tittering, and articulate chatter."
14433,The number it had killed was fourteen; three of the bodies had been in stricken homes and had not been alive.
14434,They lasted for several minutes probably ten.
14435,"The grass wore the deep tint of the cypress, and the heads of its blades hung droopingly, and hither and thither among it were many small unsightly hillocks, low and narrow, and not very long, that had the aspect of graves, but were not; although over and all about them the rue and the rosemary clambered."
14436,"Queer old duck, though, and sticks mighty close in his home."
14437,"""Questo poi, no,"" said the wild looking savage, who held the torch; ""you can advance but a short distance, and nobody visits it."""
14438,He had never wronged me.
14439,"No no me miserable; for love extinct there is no resurrection ""Yet I love you."
14440,"I have read of mourners in ancient days, who clothed themselves in sackcloth, scattered dust upon their heads, ate their bread mingled with ashes, and took up their abode on the bleak mountain tops, reproaching heaven and earth aloud with their misfortunes."
14441,"Some was more teched than others, an' some never did change quite enough to take to the water; but mostly they turned aout jest the way them things said."
14442,"The Spaniard 'is sure' that it was that of an Englishman, but 'judges by the intonation' altogether, 'as he has no knowledge of the English.'"
14443,The panes here were scarlet a deep blood color.
14444,The fear of immediate death vanished with the heats of September.
14445,"To these Quixotic notions some recent Parisian publications, backed by three or four desperate and fatal conversation, during the greater part of the night, had run wild upon the all engrossing topic of the times."
14446,"It was generally stated that the affliction and shock were results of an unlucky slip whereby Birch had locked himself for nine hours in the receiving tomb of Peck Valley Cemetery, escaping only by crude and disastrous mechanical means; but while this much was undoubtedly true, there were other and blacker things which the man used to whisper to me in his drunken delirium toward the last."
14447,"But my plan was unsettled, and I wandered many hours round the confines of the town, uncertain what path I should pursue."
14448,"To me, this article appears conclusive of little beyond the zeal of its inditer."
14449,"""Oh, beautiful"" sighed her Grace."
14450,"The ganzas, with whom he had become so familiar, were not really denizens of St. Helena, but of the moon."
14451,"The door, a ponderous and forbidding slab of stone, hangs upon rusted iron hinges, and is fastened ajar in a queerly sinister way by means of heavy iron chains and padlocks, according to a gruesome fashion of half a century ago."
14452,But to return to dearer considerations.
14453,"My dress it was an easy matter to copy; my gait and general manner were, without difficulty, appropriated; in spite of his constitutional defect, even my voice did not escape him."
14454,"Very good One, two, is this a good quarter?"
14455,"The picture then presented itself to her in such glowing colours, that she feared the reverse, and a life of magnificence and power in London; where Raymond would no longer be hers only, nor she the sole source of happiness to him."
14456,"In less than a minute the storm was upon us in less than two the sky was entirely overcast and what with this and the driving spray, it became suddenly so dark that we could not see each other in the smack."
14457,"Most horrible of all sights are the little unpainted wooden houses remote from travelled ways, usually squatted upon some damp, grassy slope or leaning against some gigantic outcropping of rock."
14458,But we have been placed here and bid live and hope.
14459,"And so far as he could tell, it was a rough parallel in all essential features of the bestial thing now lying before the meeting."
14460,"The door on the north was hung to open away from me, and this though a test proved it to be locked or bolted from the other side I knew must be my route."
14461,"I was much affected by the kindness of feeling towards me personally, which was evinced in this excellent advice of Mr. Crab, and I did not fail to profit by it forthwith."
14462,"Three months previously five of the little squint eyed traders had come down from the hills, and in a market brawl three of them had been killed."
14463,"Now I am not in any respect a genius, but a regular business man."
14464,The next morning while sitting on the steps of the temple of Aesculapius in the Borghese gardens Fantasia again visited me smilingly beckoned to me to follow her My flight was at first heavy but the breezes commanded by the spirit to convoy me grew stronger as I advanced a pleasing languour seized my senses when I recovered I found my self by the Elysian fountain near Diotima The beautiful female whom I had left on the point of narrating her earthly history seemed to have waited for my return and as soon as I appeared she spoke thus I VISITED Naples in the year .
14465,"The four others were dark eyed, hardy little vagrants; this child was thin and very fair."
14466,"The color"" here he turned to me ""is really almost enough to warrant Jupiter's idea."
14467,"Worst of all, though, is the shrivelling of old fears in the hearts of Kingsport's young men, who grow prone to listen at night to the north wind's faint distant sounds."
14468,Then came the steeper slope that held the old Carter place he had not seen in over forty years.
14469,"As we descended the shaft, the sound beneath grew definitely composite."
14470,"Thus passed away two lustra of her life, and as yet my daughter remained nameless upon the earth."
14471,"We had not been settled a week before we got an accident victim on the very night of burial, and made it open its eyes with an amazingly rational expression before the solution failed."
14472,"Perhaps he held within his own half explored brain that cryptic link which would awaken him to elder and future lives in forgotten dimensions; which would bind him to the stars, and to the infinities and eternities beyond them."
14473,"Perhaps in unremembered dreams tonight; perhaps in some other form an aeon hence, when the solar system shall have been swept away."""
14474,"His repugnance to ""the humanities"" had, also, much increased of late, by an accidental bias in favor of what he supposed to be natural science."
14475,"A natural accident, such as will happen now and then"" I gave the matter no further consideration, and at my usual hour retired to bed."
14476,"I was like the Arabian who had been buried with the dead and found a passage to life, aided only by one glimmering and seemingly ineffectual light."
14477,This was my first love so I felt it to be.
14478,"They rallied, fought madly, and retreated again."
14479,The Turk plays with his left hand.
14480,"When the machinery is wound up, the movements continue about an hour, during which time about fifty questions may be answered."
14481,"Mazurewicz seemed half dazed because of a ""sign"" he said he had had in response to his prayers, and he crossed himself frantically when the squealing and whimpering of a rat sounded from beyond the slanting partition."
14482,"""I'll tell you, I'm good and tired of water after reading of the merry bouts fellows used to have in the old days."
14483,For the feeling is no affectation or chimera.
14484,"A shepherd boy that tends a silly flock on the mountains, was more in the scale of society than I. Congratulate me then that I have found fitting scope for my powers."
14485,"He also closes the drawer, and, finally, winds up the machine, by applying a key to an aperture in the left end the spectators' left of the box."
14486,Heaven bless you and make you so My unfortunate guest regards me with the tenderest compassion.
14487,The stormy vigil reminded me shudderingly of my ghastly night on Tempest Mountain.
14488,"However, as the captain said he could perceive no indication of danger, and as we were drifting in bodily to shore, he ordered the sails to be furled, and the anchor let go."
14489,"Her father was moved by her violent grief; he took her in his arms and soothed her, but his very soothings were solemn and fearful."
14490,"The chastity of Ionia is offended by antediluvian devices, and the sphynxes of Egypt are outstretched upon carpets of gold."
14491,The astonishment which I had at first experienced on this discovery soon gave place to delight and rapture.
14492,"""And he really succeeded?"""
14493,Will my readers ask how I could find solace from the narration of misery and woeful change?
14494,At this juncture my brain became aware of a steady external influence operating upon it.
14495,They were the very old folk who dwelt higher up in the hills and spoke a choppy language which the Vascones could not understand.
14496,"This, however, is a painful position, and cannot be long maintained."
14497,I drank of an enchanted cup but gall was at the bottom of its long drawn sweetness.
14498,"The air becomes dissonant with wind instruments, and horrible with clamor of a million throats."
14499,His gross body could not undergo the needed adjustments between ethereal life and planet life.
14500,The more I studied them the more I wondered how he could buy any shoes to fit them.
14501,"At length, feeling a fatigue which had nothing of drowsiness in it, I bolted the newly outfitted hall door, turned off the light, and threw myself down on the hard, uneven bed coat, collar, shoes, and all."
14502,"""When I look upon you, the tears you shed, the soft deprecating look with which you withstand enquiry; the deep sympathy your voice expresses when I speak of my lesser sorrows add to my interest for you."
14503,"I ask'd the Doctor, if he had ever try'd making Sense of this Piece; and upon his saying he had not, I amus'd myself with the following Amendment of it: When Gallant LEEDS auspiciously shall wed The virtuous Fair, of antient Lineage bred, How must the Maid rejoice with conscious Pride To win so great an Husband to her Side On shewing this to Dr. Johnson, he said, ""Sir, you have straightened out the Feet, but you have put neither Wit nor try into the Lines."""
14504,"The bulky leather cover with the brass clasp had been so prominently visible, and the price was so absurdly slight."
14505,For a moment I half doubted that I had ever seen it in the more definitely limned form but then I thought of the legends.
14506,"A sudden gust, stronger than the others, caught up the manuscript and bore it toward the window."
14507,"Hatheg Kla is far in the stony desert beyond Hatheg, for which it is named, and rises like a rock statue in a silent temple."
14508,"I now began very clearly to perceive that the object before me was nothing more nor less than my new acquaintance, Brevet Brigadier General John A. B. C. Smith."
14509,"And frightened as I was, I yet retained enough of perception to note that his speech, when articulate, was not of any sort known to me."
14510,"I acted then, as I ever must, from impulse."
14511,There was a modern Platonist.
14512,"An indefinite sense of awe, which at first sight of the navigators of the ship had taken hold of my mind, was perhaps the principle of my concealment."
14513,"What I ask of you is reasonable and moderate; I demand a creature of another sex, but as hideous as myself; the gratification is small, but it is all that I can receive, and it shall content me."
14514,"Yet as it lies some distance from any of the main roads, being in a somewhat out of the way situation, there are perhaps very few of my readers who have ever paid it a visit."
14515,Consider the panic your departure will occasion.
14516,"My dear Lionel, we are married men, and find employment sufficient in amusing our wives, and dancing our children."
14517,"Shadows thickened around him, for the night was near."
14518,"Now each life was a gem, each human breathing form of far, O far more worth than subtlest imagery of sculptured stone; and the daily, nay, hourly decrease visible in our numbers, visited the heart with sickening misery."
14519,"Scarcely, in truth, is a graveyard ever encroached upon, for any purpose, to any great extent, that skeletons are not found in postures which suggest the most fearful of suspicions."
14520,"There were suggestions of the vague, twilight abysses, and of still vaster, blacker abysses beyond them abysses in which all fixed suggestions of form were absent."
14521,"Turn from me, if you will, if you can."
14522,The pulse was barely perceptible.
14523,"Demon eyes, of a wild and ghastly vivacity, glared upon me in a thousand directions, where none had been visible before, and gleamed with the lurid lustre of a fire that I could not force my imagination to regard as unreal."
14524,"It will be said, I am aware, that when we persist in acts because we feel we should not persist in them, our conduct is but a modification of that which ordinarily springs from the combativeness of phrenology."
14525,"""No,"" he said, ""oh, no a member of my family my niece, and a most accomplished woman."""
14526,My outstretched hands at length encountered some solid obstruction.
14527,"But at length when the sun had utterly departed, the Fay, now the mere ghost of her former self, went disconsolately with her boat into the region of the ebony flood, and that she issued thence at all I cannot say, for darkness fell over all things and I beheld her magical figure no more."
14528,"If there is any thing on earth I hate, it is a genius."
14529,"In search of a suitable place so situated, Ellison travelled for several years, and I was permitted to accompany him."
14530,Why not still proceed over the untamed yet obedient element?
14531,"Later, I told myself, I should grow to a strength and ingenuity which might enable me to unfasten the heavily chained door with ease; but until then I would do better by conforming to what seemed the will of Fate."
14532,"I was greatly and immediately relieved, however, when I saw the lady merely hand the gentleman a play bill, without speaking, but the reader may form some feeble conception of my astonishment of my profound amazement my delirious bewilderment of heart and soul when, instantly afterward, having again glanced furtively around, she allowed her bright eyes to set fully and steadily upon my own, and then, with a faint smile, disclosing a bright line of her pearly teeth, made two distinct, pointed, and unequivocal affirmative inclinations of the head."
14533,She did the pirouette to admiration whirling round upon her apex.
14534,"These journals may excel the 'Lollipop' in outcry, but, in all other points, give us the 'Lollipop' How this celebrated Magazine can sustain its evidently tremendous expenses, is past comprehension."
14535,"Propped level on that floor were low cases full of books of every degree of antiquity and disintegration, and in the centre were a table and bench, both apparently fastened in place."
14536,"The result, of course, did but prove how entirely the prey was in my toils; in less than an hour he had quadrupled his debt."
14537,"To think that there I was, opening the door, little by little, and he not even to dream of my secret deeds or thoughts."
14538,"It was in a grotesque hidden courtyard of the Greenwich section, for there in my ignorance I had settled, having heard of the place as the natural home of poets and artists."
14539,The silent grasp of a few rough arms and all would have been over.
14540,"There were some large square Georgian houses, too, with hipped roofs, cupolas, and railed ""widow's walks""."
14541,"It was not like a human loveliness that these gentle smiles went and came; but as a sunbeam on a lake, now light and now obscure, flitting before as you strove to catch them, and fold them for ever to your heart."
14542,"""Shall each man,"" cried he, ""find a wife for his bosom, and each beast have his mate, and I be alone?"
14543,"Ugh There are few persons I loathe more than that cursed little Syrian rat I have myself been carried back to Roman times by my recent perusal of James Rhoades' Æneid, a translation never before read by me, and more faithful to P. Maro than any other versified version I have ever seen including that of my late uncle Dr. Clark, which did not attain publication."
14544,"These are the reflections of the first days; but when the lapse of time proves the reality of the evil, then the actual bitterness of grief commences."
14545,"I believe we felt something coming down from the greenish moon, for when we began to depend on its light we drifted into curious involuntary formations and seemed to know our destinations though we dared not think of them."
14546,It was late in autumn when I quitted the district where I had so long resided.
14547,"Professor Angell must have employed a cutting bureau, for the number of extracts was tremendous and the sources scattered throughout the globe."
14548,"No teacher urged or guided me, and I do not recall hearing any human voice in all those years not even my own; for although I had read of speech, I had never thought to try to speak aloud."
14549,I affirm I swear that I had no share in these extreme aspirations.
14550,The light is dimmer and the gods are afraid. . .
14551,"The country, it is well known, has become infested with cats so much so of late, that a petition for relief, most numerously and respectably signed, was brought before the Legislature at its late memorable session."
14552,Could not distinguish the words uttered.
14553,"He, passionate, studious, austere, and having already a bride in his Art; she a maiden of rarest beauty, and not more lovely than full of glee; all light and smiles, and frolicsome as the young fawn; loving and cherishing all things; hating only the Art which was her rival; dreading only the pallet and brushes and other untoward instruments which deprived her of the countenance of her lover."
14554,"The dazzling light of ornamented rooms; lovely forms arrayed in splendid dresses; the motions of a dance, the voluptuous tones of exquisite music, cradled my senses in one delightful dream."
14555,"As for ""Oppodeldoc,"" I began to experience compassion for the poor fellow."
14556,"Though the man Romero had interested me, and though my ring had affected him peculiarly, I think that neither of us had any expectation of what was to follow when the great blast was set off."
14557,Now it is told in the mouldy Pnakotic Manuscripts that Sansu found naught but wordless ice and rock when he climbed Hatheg Kla in the youth of the world.
14558,"Legs to all this offered not the slightest resistance, but sat down as he was directed; while the gallant Hugh, removing his coffin tressel from its station near the head of the table, to the vicinity of the little consumptive lady in the winding sheet, plumped down by her side in high glee, and pouring out a skull of red wine, quaffed it to their better acquaintance."
14559,"As I swung the beam around to the south, I noticed that the ocean floor ahead fell away in a marked declivity, and bore curiously regular blocks of stone in certain places, disposed as if in accordance with definite patterns."
14560,"Man existed by twos and threes; man, the individual who might sleep, and wake, and perform the animal functions; but man, in himself weak, yet more powerful in congregated numbers than wind or ocean; man, the queller of the elements, the lord of created nature, the peer of demi gods, existed no longer."
14561,"Had Kidd concealed his plunder for a time, and afterwards reclaimed it, the rumors would scarcely have reached us in their present unvarying form."
14562,"The one is to the other, as Homer to ""Flaccus"" as a Mastodon to a mouse as the tail of a comet to that of a pig."
14563,"I could not have stirred with it a feather if my life had been at issue, or sullied even the delicacy of a mirror."
14564,"I have defended it with my sword, and was willing that my spirit should be breathed out in its defence; freedom is of more worth than life, and the Greeks do well to defend their privilege unto death."
14565,"The centuried, tottering houses on both sides seemed alive with a fresh and morbid malignity as if some hitherto closed channel of evil understanding had abruptly been opened."
14566,"Some Kingsport fishermen heerd abaout the ketch an' come up in sloops, but they was all lost."
14567,"""The child still struggled and loaded me with epithets which carried despair to my heart; I grasped his throat to silence him, and in a moment he lay dead at my feet."
14568,"I hovered for ever around the walls of its Castle, beneath its enshadowing thickets; my sole companions were my books and my loving thoughts."
14569,"Stupified with terror, the young nobleman tottered to the door."
14570,"Yes, I am happy, most happy, that I can weep thus for imaginary sorrows, and that the slight loss of my adored country is not dwindled and annihilated in mightier misery."
14571,"They were evidently suffering from the nervous strain of our long voyage, and had had bad dreams."
14572,It was a mystery all insoluble; nor could I grapple with the shadowy fancies that crowded upon me as I pondered.
14573,"Those later spectral legends, I made plain, related to monstrous apparitions more frightful than anything organic could be; apparitions of gigantic bestial forms sometimes visible and sometimes only tangible, which floated about on moonless nights and haunted the old house, the crypt behind it, and the grave where a sapling had sprouted beside an illegible slab."
14574,She shewed them how the well being of each included the prosperity of all.
14575,"We stood at the door looking on this strange scene, till the dog perceiving us barked loudly; the child turned and saw us: her face."
14576,"""But then I have no change for a hundred, and upon the whole, you had better ""Cast off there"" says the captain."
14577,"It spread over the old man, too, whether from the same source or because of his fear and vehemence, and I saw him shrivel and blacken as he lurched near and strove to rend me with vulturine talons."
14578,"The older fellows look the worst fact is, I don't believe I've ever seen a very old chap of that kind."
14579,"I say that I saw this thing, but it is only in conscious retrospection that I ever definitely traced its damnable approach to form."
14580,"Its size must have been exaggerated, yet the stones lying about proved that it was no mere negro village."
14581,"The same individual submitted to me, without being at all aware of my intentions, a method of constructing balloons from the membrane of a certain animal, through which substance any escape of gas was nearly an impossibility."
14582,"The paragraph beginning 'It is folly to suppose that the murder, etc.,' however it appears as printed in L'Etoile, may be imagined to have existed actually thus in the brain of its inditer 'It is folly to suppose that the murder, if murder was committed on the body, could have been committed soon enough to have enabled her murderers to throw the body into the river before midnight; it is folly, we say, to suppose all this, and to suppose at the same time, as we are resolved to suppose, that the body was not thrown in until after midnight' a sentence sufficiently inconsequential in itself, but not so utterly preposterous as the one printed."
14583,"My frame is strong, but my soul sinks beneath this endurance of living anguish."
14584,"The memory of that unfortunate king and his companions, the amiable Falkland, the insolent Goring, his queen, and son, gave a peculiar interest to every part of the city which they might be supposed to have inhabited."
14585,The men from Arkham were undecided what to do.
14586,"""That is my least concern; I am, by a course of strange events, become the most miserable of mortals."
14587,"Many a casque, and bayonet, and sword, fallen from unnerved arms, reflected the departing ray; they lay scattered far and near."
14588,"So intense an expression of romance, perhaps I should call it, or of unworldliness, as that which gleamed from her deep set eyes, had never so sunk into my heart of hearts before."
14589,And what means the singular prophecy of Madame Rogêt on the morning of Marie's departure?
14590,"Others perceived only a passing casualty; they endeavoured to exchange terror for heedlessness, and plunged into licentiousness, to avoid the agonizing throes of worst apprehension."
14591,"They struck a solid wooden substance, which extended above my person at an elevation of not more than six inches from my face."
14592,"And poor Clerval "" The name of my unfortunate and murdered friend was an agitation too great to be endured in my weak state; I shed tears."
14593,"."" rang the hideous croaking out of space."
14594,"My revenge is of no moment to you; yet, while I allow it to be a vice, I confess that it is the devouring and only passion of my soul."
14595,"Make me happy, and I shall again be virtuous."""
14596,"There was evidently, however, no pursuer; for he was alone and alive when Armington, the lodge keeper, answered his feeble clawing at the door."
14597,"I computed, also, the height of the atmosphere which could refract light enough into its dark hemisphere to produce a twilight more luminous than the light reflected from the earth when the moon is about degrees from the new to be , Paris feet; in this view, I supposed the greatest height capable of refracting the solar ray, to be , feet."
14598,"Dr. Moneypenny made the title for us, and says he chose it because it sounded big like an empty rum puncheon."
14599,I mean to say that the Deity does not create.
14600,And he would not see that the tints which he spread upon the canvas were drawn from the cheeks of her who sate beside him.
14601,Every thing was perfectly silent no groans or noises of any kind.
14602,"He thought a photograph quite as good as an actual scene or model for sustained work, and declared he employed them regularly."
14603,"The fits grow successively more and more distinctive, and endure each for a longer term than the preceding."
14604,"You can say, for instance, that the chicken you were eating write an article about being choked to death by a chicken bone was not altogether aussi tendre que Zaire."
14605,I shall never forget the afternoon when first I stumbled upon the half hidden house of death.
14606,"That fable is unjust, which gives the superiority to the sun over the wind."
14607,"Unlocking it, he ushered me into a barren hallway with what was once splendid dark oak panelling simple, of course, but thrillingly suggestive of the times of Andros and Phipps and the Witchcraft."
14608,"The following months were void of visible events, save that everyone swore to a slow but steady increase in the mysterious hill noises."
14609,"Hence it might be supposed, that at some times and not at others, there is a dense matter encompassing the moon wherein the rays of the stars are refracted."
14610,In the absence of the sun they have a light from the earth equal to that of thirteen full unclouded moons.
14611,"It is well known that, during the week of her absence from Le Blanc's parfumerie, she was in the company of a young naval officer, much noted for his debaucheries."
14612,"I remembered too well the treatment I had suffered the night before from the barbarous villagers, and resolved, whatever course of conduct I might hereafter think it right to pursue, that for the present I would remain quietly in my hovel, watching and endeavouring to discover the motives which influenced their actions."
14613,"Sometimes at twilight the grey vapours of the horizon have parted to grant me glimpses of the ways beyond; and sometimes at night the deep waters of the sea have grown clear and phosphorescent, to grant me glimpses of the ways beneath."
14614,"These perplexities and regrets caused her to bathe her pillow with nightly tears, and to reduce her in person and in mind to the shadow of what she had been."
14615,"Palaces were deserted, and the poor man dared at length, unreproved, intrude into the splendid apartments, whose very furniture and decorations were an unknown world to him."
14616,"The left tibia much splintered, as well as all the ribs of the left side."
14617,"The opinions of Arago are, of course, entitled to the greatest consideration; but he is by no means infallible; and what he says of bismuth, in his report to the Academy, must be taken cum grano salis."
14618,"It is only when his next move is obvious, or when the game is so circumstanced that to a man in the Automaton's place there would be no necessity for reflection."
14619,"I heard them many, many days ago yet I dared not I dared not speak And now to night Ethelred ha ha the breaking of the hermit's door, and the death cry of the dragon, and the clangor of the shield say, rather, the rending of her coffin, and the grating of the iron hinges of her prison, and her struggles within the coppered archway of the vault Oh whither shall I fly?"
14620,"Were those the fertile fields I loved was that the interchange of gentle upland and cultivated dale, once covered with waving corn, diversified by stately trees, watered by the meandering Thames?"
14621,"Night approached, and we were overtaken by a storm."
14622,"My uncle, as he gasped and tossed in increasing perturbation and with eyes that had now started open, seemed not one but many men, and suggested a curious quality of alienage from himself."
14623,"Assured of his being asleep, I returned, took the light, and with it again approached the bed."
14624,"This monomania, if I must so term it, consisted in a morbid irritability of those properties of the mind in metaphysical science termed the attentive."
14625,I saw them fashion the syllables of my name; and I shuddered because no sound succeeded.
14626,The inference here is the same as in our last observation.
14627,But her wish was of course to be complied with; and I entreated her to prepare without delay for our departure.
14628,"Had the vision occurred to me as I describe it, without my suspecting it as a dream, then a dream it might absolutely have been, but, occurring as it did, and suspected and tested as it was, I am forced to class it among other phenomena."""
14629,"I grant you that in Fum Fudge the greatness of a lion is in proportion to the size of his proboscis but, good heavens there is no competing with a lion who has no proboscis at all."""
14630,"And then again she became aware of her own excellencies, and began to balance with juster scales the shades of good and evil."
14631,"As the afternoon progressed, I sought the lower levels, descending into what appeared to be either a mediaeval place of confinement, or a more recently excavated storehouse for gunpowder."
14632,"Her ugly sister, Manon, married M. Duvillard, the rich banker, last autumn."
14633,"What was worthy of remark, a very perceptible vacillation in the car was a consequence of this change of route a vacillation which prevailed, in a more or less degree, for a period of many hours."
14634,"Greece prepared for a vigorous resistance; it rose to a man; and the women, sacrificing their costly ornaments, accoutred their sons for the war, and bade them conquer or die with the spirit of the Spartan mother."
14635,"Indeed, his competition, his resistance, and especially his impertinent and dogged interference with my purposes, were not more pointed than private."
14636,"He says they brung us fish an' treasure, an' shud hev what they hankered arter. . . ."
14637,It displayed itself in a host of unnatural sensations.
14638,"""Why, Lionel,"" said Adrian, ""what did you intend?"
14639,Tidings of an armed and regular opposition recalled them to a sort of order.
14640,"It was better than human material for maintaining life in organless fragments, and that was now my friend's chief activity."
14641,"At first astonished and startled, considering the lack of response to my recent knocking at the door, I immediately afterward concluded that the walker had just awakened from a sound sleep; and listened with less surprise as the footsteps sounded on the creaking stairs."
14642,Gorgeous beyond thought was the feast of the thousandth year of the destroying of Ib.
14643,"The expanse of the green turf was relieved, here and there, by an occasional showy shrub, such as the hydrangea, or the common snowball, or the aromatic seringa; or, more frequently, by a clump of geraniums blossoming gorgeously in great varieties."
14644,"Persia, with its cloth of gold, marble halls, and infinite wealth, is now a tomb."
14645,"Man, because he could not but acknowledge the majesty of Nature, fell into childish exultation at his acquired and still increasing dominion over her elements."
14646,"In the morning, the wretch is stricken with unutterable horror at finding that the boat has been picked up and detained at a locality which he is in the daily habit of frequenting at a locality, perhaps, which his duty compels him to frequent."
14647,"She was pale and fair, and her golden hair clustered on her temples, contrasting its rich hue with the living marble beneath."
14648,"Would it not have been better, at the first visit, to have seized it openly, and departed?"""
14649,"She was tranquil, yet her tranquillity was evidently constrained; and as her confusion had before been adduced as a proof of her guilt, she worked up her mind to an appearance of courage."
14650,"For a long time I could not conceive how one man could go forth to murder his fellow, or even why there were laws and governments; but when I heard details of vice and bloodshed, my wonder ceased and I turned away with disgust and loathing."
14651,"France, Germany, Italy and Spain, were interposed, walls yet without a breach, between us and the plague."
14652,"With a too unscrupulous confidence she had previously communicated to me the secret of the costume in which she would be habited, and now, having caught a glimpse of her person, I was hurrying to make my way into her presence."
14653,"Then we struck a substance harder than the damp mould, and beheld a rotting oblong box crusted with mineral deposits from the long undisturbed ground."
14654,The only one who would talk was a very aged but normal looking man who lived at the poorhouse on the north rim of the town and spent his time walking about or lounging around the fire station.
14655,These responses from aesthetes told a disturbing tale.
14656,"This canteen with a funnel on its top, like a cavalier cap slouched over the eyes was set on edge upon the puncheon, with the hole toward myself; and through this hole, which seemed puckered up like the mouth of a very precise old maid, the creature was emitting certain rumbling and grumbling noises which he evidently intended for intelligible talk."
14657,"Friends said that it was this series of griefs which unhinged the mind of Sir Robert Jermyn, yet it was probably merely a bit of African folklore which caused the disaster."
14658,"And now, in response to a general and urgent demand, Inspector Legrasse related as fully as possible his experience with the swamp worshippers; telling a story to which I could see my uncle attached profound significance."
14659,"In fine, driven to despair, she has committed the matter to me."" ""Than whom,"" said Dupin, amid a perfect whirlwind of smoke, ""no more sagacious agent could, I suppose, be desired, or even imagined."""
14660,To the right to the left far and wide with the shriek of a damned spirit; to my heart with the stealthy pace of the tiger I alternately laughed and howled as the one or the other idea grew predominant.
14661,"That the result would be death, and a death of more than customary bitterness, I knew too well the character of my judges to doubt."
14662,Could the demon who had I did not for a minute doubt murdered my brother also in his hellish sport have betrayed the innocent to death and ignominy?
14663,"These contrivances to make the room within the box appear less than it actually is, are referrible to a design on the part of the inventor, to impress the company again with a false idea, viz."
14664,"The cleanliness, habits of order, and the manner in which our cities were built, were all in our favour."
14665,Never conversed with a native of Russia.
14666,"My flagging spirits asked for something to speak to the affections; and not finding it, I drooped."
14667,"Not so, however, rumors and speculations."
14668,"He still professed himself quite willing and even anxious to have it made, and urged me to commence it at once."
14669,"I rushed to her defence, but rage made them blind and deaf; they did not distinguish my Christian garb or heed my words words were blunt weapons then, for while war cried ""havoc,"" and murder gave fit echo, how could I Turn back the tide of ills, relieving wrong With mild accost of soothing eloquence?"
14670,"But although men so absolutely fine looking are neither as plenty as reasons or blackberries, still I could not bring myself to believe that the remarkable something to which I alluded just now, that the odd air of je ne sais quoi which hung about my new acquaintance, lay altogether, or indeed at all, in the supreme excellence of his bodily endowments."
14671,"""What do we know,"" he had said, ""of the world and the universe about us?"
14672,"He dared not disobey the summons for fear it might prove an illusion like the urges and aspirations of waking life, which do not lead to any goal."
14673,"There was one black tower which reached above the trees into the unknown outer sky, but that was partly ruined and could not be ascended save by a well nigh impossible climb up the sheer wall, stone by stone."
14674,"Truly it was a fairy's supper; for though the air was perfumed by the scent of fruits and wine, we none of us either ate or drank even the beauty of the night was unobserved; their extasy could not be increased by outward objects, and I was wrapt in reverie."
14675,"It contained about three hundred and twenty cubic feet of gas, which, if pure hydrogen, would support twenty one pounds upon its first inflation, before the gas has time to deteriorate or escape."
14676,Three years later he died.
14677,"He ran freely about the fields and hills, and accompanied his mother on all her wanderings."
14678,The talk went on most all night.
14679,"My next logical goal was New Church Green, but somehow or other I could not bear to repass the church in whose basement I had glimpsed the inexplicably frightening form of that strangely diademed priest or pastor."
14680,"""I am quite ashamed to confess,"" I replied, ""that I have never even heard the names of either gentleman before."""
14681,Through my father's exertions a part of the inheritance of Elizabeth had been restored to her by the Austrian government.
14682,I listened to Raymond with intense interest.
14683,"Detailed description would be rather unpleasant, but two salient particulars must be told, for they fit in revoltingly with certain notes of Sir Wade Jermyn's African expeditions and with the Congolese legends of the white god and the ape princess."
14684,You have observed nothing distinctive.
14685,"But of that dreary period which intervened I had no positive, at least no definite comprehension."
14686,"Her illnesses were, after this epoch, of alarming character, and of more alarming recurrence, defying alike the knowledge and the great exertions of her physicians."
14687,"Oh, Frankenstein, be not equitable to every other and trample upon me alone, to whom thy justice, and even thy clemency and affection, is most due."
14688,"Without pausing to speak of the ""old saws,"" therefore, I shall content myself with a compendious account of some of the more ""modern instances."""
14689,"Are you, then, so easily turned from your design?"
14690,"They were wild, bold, ravenous; their red eyes glaring upon me as if they waited but for motionlessness on my part to make me their prey."
14691,"The name of the Earl startled me, and caused all the indignant blood that warmed my heart to rush into my cheeks; I had never seen him before; I figured to myself a haughty, assuming youth, who would take me to task, if he deigned to speak to me, with all the arrogance of superiority."
14692,"The abrupt sides of vast mountains were before me; the icy wall of the glacier overhung me; a few shattered pines were scattered around; and the solemn silence of this glorious presence chamber of imperial nature was broken only by the brawling waves or the fall of some vast fragment, the thunder sound of the avalanche or the cracking, reverberated along the mountains, of the accumulated ice, which, through the silent working of immutable laws, was ever and anon rent and torn, as if it had been but a plaything in their hands."
14693,"Taking a pocket flashlight from my valise, I placed it in my trousers, so that I could read my watch if I woke up later in the dark."
14694,About the mouth there was more to be observed.
14695,"My friend was dying when I spoke to him, and he could not answer coherently."
14696,"""Here we are enabled, at once, to discard the 'th,' as forming no portion of the word commencing with the first t; since, by experiment of the entire alphabet for a letter adapted to the vacancy, we perceive that no word can be formed of which this th can be a part."
14697,"The career of the horseman was indisputably, on his own part, uncontrollable."
14698,"But we will not die in heaps, like dogs poisoned in summer time, by the pestilential air of that city we dare not go against the Plague"" A multitude of men are feeble and inert, without a voice, a leader; give them that, and they regain the strength belonging to their numbers."
14699,"He was enchained by certain superstitious impressions in regard to the dwelling which he tenanted, and whence, for many years, he had never ventured forth in regard to an influence whose supposititious force was conveyed in terms too shadowy here to be re stated an influence which some peculiarities in the mere form and substance of his family mansion, had, by dint of long sufferance, he said, obtained over his spirit an effect which the physique of the gray walls and turrets, and of the dim tarn into which they all looked down, had, at length, brought about upon the morale of his existence."
14700,Of this he had long felt certain.
14701,"As I watched choked by a sudden rise in the fishy odour after a short abatement I saw a band of uncouth, crouching shapes loping and shambling in the same direction; and knew that this must be the party guarding the Ipswich road, since that highway forms an extension of Eliot Street."
14702,"There was a sharp turn at every twenty or thirty yards, and at each turn a novel effect."
14703,"Strange to say, this feeling was infectious."
14704,"I dare say he will be glad to see you."""
14705,And then I repeated to myself all that lovely passage that relates the entrance of Dante into the terrestrial Paradise; and thought it would be sweet when I wandered on those lovely banks to see the car of light descend with my long lost parent to be restored to me.
14706,"They were of that vaster and more appalling universe of dim entity and consciousness which lies deeper than matter, time, and space, and whose existence we suspect only in certain forms of sleep those rare dreams beyond dreams which come never to common men, and but once or twice in the lifetime of imaginative men."
14707,"Dead, and at full length he lay, enshrouded; the genius and the demon of the scene."
14708,"Then the three of us dragged from another room a wide four poster bedstead, crowding it laterally against the window."
14709,"I grant, at least, that there are two distinct conditions of my mental existence the condition of a lucid reason, not to be disputed, and belonging to the memory of events forming the first epoch of my life and a condition of shadow and doubt, appertaining to the present, and to the recollection of what constitutes the second great era of my being."
14710,"Just what Crawford Tillinghast now wished of me I could only guess, but that he had some stupendous secret or discovery to impart, I could not doubt."
14711,"It was the dank, humid cellar which somehow exerted the strongest repulsion on us, even though it was wholly above ground on the street side, with only a thin door and window pierced brick wall to separate it from the busy sidewalk."
14712,"That same night after Adrian's departure, her mother had warmly expostulated with her on the subject of her attachment to me."
14713,"But I had suffered him to depart, and he had directed his course towards the mainland."
14714,"There will be a point there will be a degree of rarity, at which, if the atoms are sufficiently numerous, the interspaces must vanish, and the mass absolutely coalesce."
14715,"Some of these were in curious fragments, and all that survived had to be shot."
14716,"A part of its orb was at length hid, and I waved my brand; it sank, and with a loud scream I fired the straw, and heath, and bushes, which I had collected."
14717,Why is it that I feel no horror?
14718,"Oh God pity me, Charmion I am overburthened with the majesty of all things of the unknown now known of the speculative Future merged in the august and certain Present."
14719,What the things agreed to give in return was plenty o' fish they druv 'em in from all over the sea an' a few gold like things naow an' then.
14720,"With us remained sorrow, anxiety, and unendurable expectation of evil."
14721,"But, as the point immediately beneath him seems, and is, at a great distance below him, it seems, of course, also, at a great distance below the horizon."
14722,"And once I walked through a golden valley that led to shadowy groves and ruins, and ended in a mighty wall green with antique vines, and pierced by a little gate of bronze."
14723,It is well when flies only are caught by such spiders' webs; but is it for the high born and powerful to bow their necks to the flimsy yoke of these unmeaning pretensions?
14724,"Upon my entering he strode hurriedly up to me, and, seizing me by the arm with a gesture of petulant impatience, whispered the words ""William Wilson"" in my ear."
14725,I have no ambition to lose my life on the post road between St. Petersburgh and Archangel.
14726,"The Sefton tragedy they will not connect with West; not that, nor the men with the box, whose existence they deny."
14727,"""Many other persons, neighbors, gave evidence to the same effect."
14728,"The first revelation led to an exhaustive research, and finally to that shuddering quest which proved so disastrous to myself and mine."
14729,"To the moralist it will be unnecessary to say, in addition, that Wilson and myself were the most inseparable of companions."
14730,"It wanted about five minutes of eight when, taking the patient's hand, I begged him to state, as distinctly as he could, to Mr. L l, whether he M. Valdemar was entirely willing that I should make the experiment of mesmerizing him in his then condition."
14731,"Everything seemed to me tainted with a loathsome contagion, and inspired by a noxious alliance with distorted hidden powers."
14732,And they do not wish quaint Kingsport with its climbing lanes and archaic gables to drag listless down the years while voice by voice the laughing chorus grows stronger and wilder in that unknown and terrible eyrie where mists and the dreams of mists stop to rest on their way from the sea to the skies.
14733,Again I strained to catch his whispers.
14734,"These colors disappear at longer or shorter intervals after the material written upon cools, but again become apparent upon the re application of heat."
14735,"The following anecdote, at least, is so well authenticated, that we may receive it implicitly."
14736,"And, as accident permitted, I complied with or refused her request."
14737,"The Greeks were strongly attached to their commercial pursuits, and would have been satisfied with their present acquisitions, had not the Turks roused them by invasion."
14738,"Absence from the busy stage had caused him to be forgotten by the people; his former parliamentary supporters were principally composed of royalists, who had been willing to make an idol of him when he appeared as the heir of the Earldom of Windsor; but who were indifferent to him, when he came forward with no other attributes and distinctions than they conceived to be common to many among themselves."
14739,I rushed into my sister's cabin; it was empty.
14740,"The grease was gone, for the mouldy floor was porous."
14741,"A little consideration will convince any one that the difficulty of making a machine beat all games, Is not in the least degree greater, as regards the principle of the operations necessary, than that of making it beat a single game."
14742,"The latter had felt secure of victory, until the appearance of Raymond; and, since his name had been inserted as a candidate, he had canvassed with eagerness."
14743,"Fortunately no one was about, though a curious sort of buzz or roar seemed to be increasing in the direction of Town Square."
14744,"The door, of massive iron, had been, also, similarly protected."
14745,"In general, the Turk is victorious once or twice he has been beaten."
14746,"St. Eustache fell especially under suspicion; and he failed, at first, to give an intelligible account of his whereabouts during the Sunday on which Marie left home."
14747,He was obviously quite mad.
14748,This was a glorious winter.
14749,"In short, it seemed to my uncle and me that an incontrovertible array of facts pointed to some lingering influence in the shunned house; traceable to one or another of the ill favoured French settlers of two centuries before, and still operative through rare and unknown laws of atomic and electronic motion."
14750,"""Everything cleaned up in the mornin' but they was traces. . . ."
14751,"Monsieur Dumas, and his worthy coadjutor Monsieur Etienne, have pronounced that they were inflicted by some obtuse instrument; and so far these gentlemen are very correct."
14752,The chair on which the figure sits is affixed permanently to the box.
14753,"The sound came from a squat towered stone church of manifestly later date than most of the houses, built in a clumsy Gothic fashion and having a disproportionately high basement with shuttered windows."
14754,Nobody hesitates at paying for a letter especially for a double one people are such fools and it was no trouble to get round a corner before there was time to open the epistles.
14755,"Finally he decided to lay a base of three parallel with the wall, to place upon this two layers of two each, and upon these a single box to serve as the platform."
14756,"Impossible A mason?"" ""A mason,"" I replied."
14757,"The events that in succession followed his return to England, gave me keener feelings."
14758,"We took no more sweet counsel together; and when I tried to win him again to me, his anger, and the terrible emotions that he exhibited drove me to silence and tears."
14759,"""Long have I missed thee, Aira, for I was but young when we went into exile; but my father was thy King and I shall come again to thee, for it is so decreed of Fate."
14760,"The supposed brass with which it was filled was all in small, smooth pieces, varying from the size of a pea to that of a dollar; but the pieces were irregular in shape, although more or less flat looking, upon the whole, 'very much as lead looks when thrown upon the ground in a molten state, and there suffered to grow cool.' Now, not one of these officers for a moment suspected this metal to be any thing but brass."
14761,"The atrocity of this murder, for it was at once evident that murder had been committed, the youth and beauty of the victim, and, above all, her previous notoriety, conspired to produce intense excitement in the minds of the sensitive Parisians."
14762,"Maybe Harvard wun't be so fussy as yew be."""
14763,"He again went through the scene of the bell rope and cudgel, and did not omit the duck."
14764,"It was, he said, a constitutional and a family evil, and one for which he despaired to find a remedy a mere nervous affection, he immediately added, which would undoubtedly soon pass off."
14765,"Some houses along Main Street were tenanted, but most were tightly boarded up."
14766,"The examination occupied us until dark, when we took our departure."
14767,"Then, driven ahead by curiosity in their captured yacht under Johansen's command, the men sight a great stone pillar sticking out of the sea, and in S. Latitude , W. Longitude come upon a coast line of mingled mud, ooze, and weedy Cyclopean masonry which can be nothing less than the tangible substance of earth's supreme terror the nightmare corpse city of R'lyeh, that was built in measureless aeons behind history by the vast, loathsome shapes that seeped down from the dark stars."
14768,"Witnesses said it had long hair and the shape of a rat, but that its sharp toothed, bearded face was evilly human while its paws were like tiny human hands."
14769,"Here my host's observations were cut short by another series of yells, of the same character as those which had previously disconcerted us."
14770,"I believe I sang a great deal, and laughed oddly when I was unable to sing."
14771,"The expression of his smile, however, was by no means unpleasing, as might be supposed; but it had no variation whatever."
14772,"From the east, a band of ravens, old inhabitants of the Turkish cemeteries, came sailing along towards their harvest; the sun disappeared."
14773,Very plausibly his saner self argued that the place must be tenanted by people who reached it from inland along the easier ridge beside the Miskatonic's estuary.
14774,"Wherever seen it has been an object of intense curiosity, to all persons who think."
14775,"I have therefore framed for myself, as you see, a bower of dreams."
14776,"A middle aged man, with some intelligence of manner, but with so common place a physiognomy, that Raymond could scarcely believe that he was the designer."
14777,"If drowned, being a woman, she might never have sunk; or having sunk, might have reappeared in twenty four hours, or less."
14778,"And such it would undoubtedly be, were they right in their supposition."
14779,"The vegetables in the gardens, the milk and cheese that I saw placed at the windows of some of the cottages, allured my appetite."
14780,"These the keg and canisters I connected in a proper manner with covered trains; and having let into one of the canisters the end of about four feet of slow match, I covered up the hole, and placed the cask over it, leaving the other end of the match protruding about an inch, and barely visible beyond the cask."
14781,"This spirit of perverseness, I say, came to my final overthrow."
14782,"'I lie,' forsooth and 'hold my tongue,' to be sure pretty conversation indeed, to a gentleman with a single breath all this, too, when I have it in my power to relieve the calamity under which thou dost so justly suffer to curtail the superfluities of thine unhappy respiration."""
14783,"Her garb was rustic, and her cheek pale; but there was an air of dignity and beauty, that hardly permitted the sentiment of pity."
14784,"Through this tube a quantity of the rare atmosphere circumjacent being drawn by means of a vacuum created in the body of the machine, was thence discharged, in a state of condensation, to mingle with the thin air already in the chamber."
14785,"They are dead, and but one feeling in such a solitude can persuade me to preserve my life."
14786,"I saw plainly that he was surprised, but he never attempted to draw my secret from me; and although I loved him with a mixture of affection and reverence that knew no bounds, yet I could never persuade myself to confide in him that event which was so often present to my recollection, but which I feared the detail to another would only impress more deeply."
14787,"He continued: ""We had been talking of horses, if I remember aright, just before leaving the Rue C ."
14788,"""Besides the articles above enumerated, I conveyed to the depot, and there secreted, one of M. Grimm's improvements upon the apparatus for condensation of the atmospheric air."
14789,"She had rejected these advances; and the time for such exuberant submission, which must be founded on love and nourished by it, was now passed."
14790,"""Smith?"" said my partner, ""why, not General John A. B. C.? Horrid affair that, wasn't it?"
14791,"Thus, while the wise, the good, and the prudent were occupied by the labours of benevolence, the truce of winter produced other effects among the young, the thoughtless, and the vicious."
14792,Waiting seemed very long to Mr. Czanek as he fidgeted restlessly in the covered motor car by the Terrible Old Man's back gate in Ship Street.
14793,"Puss, who seemed in a great measure recovered from her illness, now made a hearty meal of the dead bird and then went to sleep with much apparent satisfaction."
14794,"Indeed I was too weary to walk further: the air was chill but I was careless of bodily inconvenience, and I thought that I was well inured to the weather during my two years of solitude, when no change of seasons prevented my perpetual wanderings."
14795,"The author who was much thought of in his day was one Miller, or Mill; and we find it recorded of him, as a point of some importance, that he had a mill horse called Bentham."
14796,"A few of the organic objects tended to awake vague memories in the back of his mind, though he could form no conscious idea of what they mockingly resembled or suggested."
14797,Somehow thus: Can't be too brief.
14798,"In truth so deeply was I excited by the perilous position of my companion, that I fell at full length upon the ground, clung to the shrubs around me, and dared not even glance upward at the sky while I struggled in vain to divest myself of the idea that the very foundations of the mountain were in danger from the fury of the winds."
14799,"Twice a year they would light fires on the top of Sentinel Hill, at which times the mountain rumblings would recur with greater and greater violence; while at all seasons there were strange and portentous doings at the lonely farmhouse."
14800,Then it was not done by human agency.
14801,"Again he converses, for some fifteen minutes, upon the public affairs."
14802,To describe their exact nature is impossible for one unversed in music.
14803,"And pox on him, I'm afeared the squire must have sarved them monstrous bad rum whether or not by intent for a week after he larnt the secret he was the only man living that knew it."
14804,"'There were originally but three Muses Melete, Mneme, Aoede meditation, memory, and singing.'"
14805,"One thing I began to suspect, and which I now fear I know, is that my uncle's death was far from natural."
14806,"He had seen it, and praised it; it was again retouched by her, each stroke of her pencil was as a chord of thrilling music, and bore to her the idea of a temple raised to celebrate the deepest and most unutterable emotions of her soul."
14807,"""What a noble fellow"" you will exclaim."
14808,"It had to be done my way artificial preservation for you see I died that time eighteen years ago."""
14809,"By degrees Evadne related to her friend the whole of her story, the stain her name had received in Greece, the weight of sin which had accrued to her from the death of her husband."
14810,"The room within which they found themselves proved to be the shop of an undertaker; but an open trap door, in a corner of the floor near the entrance, looked down upon a long range of wine cellars, whose depths the occasional sound of bursting bottles proclaimed to be well stored with their appropriate contents."
14811,"What added, no doubt, to my hatred of the beast, was the discovery, on the morning after I brought it home, that, like Pluto, it also had been deprived of one of its eyes."
14812,"Believing I was now at a prodigious height, far above the accursed branches of the wood, I dragged myself up from the floor and fumbled about for windows, that I might look for the first time upon the sky, and the moon and stars of which I had read."
14813,At first an unusual quantity of specie made its appearance with the emigrants; but these people had no means of receiving back into their hands what they spent among us.
14814,I could only think of the bourne of my travels and the work which was to occupy me whilst they endured.
14815,"Coincidences, in general, are great stumbling blocks in the way of that class of thinkers who have been educated to know nothing of the theory of probabilities that theory to which the most glorious objects of human research are indebted for the most glorious of illustration."
14816,The foregoing observations apply to the appearance of the Automaton upon its first introduction into the presence of the spectators.
14817,"It had looked very queer to her, but of course the young gentleman had lots of queer things in his room books and curios and pictures and markings on paper."
14818,Would you also create for yourself and the world a demoniacal enemy?
14819,"A traveller, portmanteau in hand, is discovered running toward the wharf, at full speed."
14820,"The real diameter of the same comet's nebulosity is observed to contract rapidly as it approaches the sun, and dilate with equal rapidity in its departure towards its aphelion."
14821,"I was rough as the elements, and unlearned as the animals I tended."
14822,It was the hour of the slack but the sea still heaved in mountainous waves from the effects of the hurricane.
14823,"Dogless, niggerless, headless, what now remains for the unhappy Signora Psyche Zenobia?"
14824,"Sometimes, with my sails set, I was carried by the wind; and sometimes, after rowing into the middle of the lake, I left the boat to pursue its own course and gave way to my own miserable reflections."
14825,"But, on the next day, getting up very early, I contrived to give him the slip, and went into the hills in search of the tree."
14826,Sweeps were sent up and down the chimneys.
14827,"March d the crew of the Emma landed on an unknown island and left six men dead; and on that date the dreams of sensitive men assumed a heightened vividness and darkened with dread of a giant monster's malign pursuit, whilst an architect had gone mad and a sculptor had lapsed suddenly into delirium And what of this storm of April nd the date on which all dreams of the dank city ceased, and Wilcox emerged unharmed from the bondage of strange fever?"
14828,"He was called ""Old Bugs"", and was the most disreputable object in a disreputable environment."
14829,"I was soon upon the point of resigning myself to my fate, and dropping quietly into the sea, when my spirits were suddenly revived by hearing a hollow voice from above, which seemed to be lazily humming an opera air."
14830,It made me think illogically of that unpleasantly undulating column on the far off Ipswich road.
14831,"As to the shape of the phenomenon, it was even still more reprehensible."
14832,"It had hellishly long, sharp, canine teeth."
14833,"Black draperies, likewise, in the gloomy room, shut out from our view the moon, the lurid stars, and the peopleless streets but the boding and the memory of Evil they would not be so excluded."
14834,"While the brother and sister were still hesitating in what manner they could best attempt to bring their mother over to their party, she, suspecting our meetings, taxed her children with them; taxed her fair daughter with deceit, and an unbecoming attachment for one whose only merit was being the son of the profligate favourite of her imprudent father; and who was doubtless as worthless as he from whom he boasted his descent."
14835,"The one glimpse he had had of the title was enough to send him into transports, and some of the diagrams set in the vague Latin text excited the tensest and most disquieting recollections in his brain."
14836,"Other specimens the youth had not seen, though many were rumoured to exist around Innsmouth."
14837,"It echoed and echoed through the dim vaultings of that ancient and nitrous cellar, and I had to choke back a flood of reaction that threatened to burst out as hysterical laughter."
14838,"All the same his crews ud git a piece an' dispose of it naow and then, even though they was swore to keep quiet; an' he let his women folks wear some o' the pieces as was more human like than most."
14839,"But I wish to call your attention to the distinction which is made between 'drowned bodies,' and 'bodies thrown into the water immediately after death by violence.'"
14840,"""Mademoiselle Rogêt left her mother's house on Sunday morning, June the twenty second, , with the ostensible purpose of going to see her aunt, or some other connexion, in the Rue des Drômes."
14841,Sails were lying in the bottom of the boat.
14842,"Nor is he matter, as you understand it."
14843,"Much of this tale she concealed from Raymond; nor did she confess, that repulse and denial, as to a criminal convicted of the worst of crimes, that of bringing the scythe of foreign despotism to cut away the new springing liberties of her country, would have followed her application to any among the Greeks."
14844,An' tell me why Obed was allus droppin' heavy things daown into the deep water t'other side o' the reef whar the bottom shoots daown like a cliff lower'n ye kin saound?
14845,"She had asked her neighbour Mary Czanek to sleep in the room and try to protect the child, but Mary had not dared."
14846,"He was an especial favorite, too, with the ladies chiefly on account of his high reputation for courage."
14847,"I must besides do the driver the justice to state that he did not forget to throw after me the largest of my trunks, which, unfortunately falling on my head, fractured my skull in a manner at once interesting and extraordinary."
14848,"It ran thus: ""Monsieur Simpson vill pardonne me for not compose de butefulle tong of his contree so vell as might."
14849,"They climb to the moonlit towers of ruined Rhine castles, and falter down black cobwebbed steps beneath the scattered stones of forgotten cities in Asia."
14850,"After one or two trivial remarks, to which I sullenly replied, he suddenly cried, looking at the bust, ""I am called like that victor Not a bad idea; the head will serve for my new coinage, and be an omen to all dutiful subjects of my future success."""
14851,I have much very much which it would give me the greatest pleasure to communicate.
14852,"The solution that seemed to me the most probable was that during his residence in London he had fallen in love with some unworthy person, and that his passion mastered him although he would not gratify it: he loved me too well to sacrifise me to this inclination, and that he had now visited this house that by reviving the memory of my mother whom he so passionately adored he might weaken the present impression."
14853,Was not acquainted with the Italian language.
14854,"Is not love a divinity, because it is immortal?"
14855,I might be driven into the wide Atlantic and feel all the tortures of starvation or be swallowed up in the immeasurable waters that roared and buffeted around me.
14856,"I accordingly went over to the plantation, and re instituted my inquiries among the older negroes of the place."
14857,"I now unpacked the condensing apparatus, and got it ready for immediate use."
14858,"Harris was a substantial merchant and seaman in the West India trade, connected with the firm of Obadiah Brown and his nephews."
14859,The neighbours grumblingly acquiesced in the inertia but the foetor none the less formed an additional count against the place.
14860,"The man, of course, was not permitted to get on board again, and was soon out of sight, he and his life preserver."
14861,"There came a period when people were curious enough to steal up and count the herd that grazed precariously on the steep hillside above the old farmhouse, and they could never find more than ten or twelve anaemic, bloodless looking specimens."
14862,"""Here then, at least,"" I shrieked aloud, ""can I never can I never be mistaken these are the full, and the black, and the wild eyes of my lost love of the lady of the LADY LIGEIA."""
14863,"Nothing so well assists the fancy, as an experimental knowledge of the matter in hand."
14864,"Then he would have recourse to the polite laughter they had taught him to use against the extravagance and artificiality of dreams; for he saw that the daily life of our world is every inch as extravagant and artificial, and far less worthy of respect because of its poverty in beauty and its silly reluctance to admit its own lack of reason and purpose."
14865,Forms affected my vision no longer.
14866,"At death, or metamorphosis, these creatures, enjoying the ultimate life immortality and cognizant of all secrets but the one, act all things and pass everywhere by mere volition: indwelling, not the stars, which to us seem the sole palpabilities, and for the accommodation of which we blindly deem space created but that SPACE itself that infinity of which the truly substantive vastness swallows up the star shadows blotting them out as non entities from the perception of the angels."
14867,"He granted for the sake of argument that some unnatural monster had really existed, but reminded me that even the most morbid perversion of Nature need not be unnamable or scientifically indescribable."
14868,"When I returned to Perdita, I found that she had already been informed of the success of my undertaking."
14869,In this manner the horizon of the æronaut would appear to be on a level with the car.
14870,"Upon these three I internally vowed the bitterest revenge, if ever I should be so happy as to get them within my clutches; and I believe nothing in the world but the pleasure of this anticipation prevented me from putting my plan of suicide into immediate execution, by blowing my brains out with a blunderbuss."
14871,"""Why, yes,"" said Dupin, drawlingly, between the whiffs of his meerschaum, ""I really think, G , you have not exerted yourself to the utmost in this matter."
14872,They were a consequence a result.
14873,"In vain our Protector and his partizans sought to conceal this truth; in vain, day after day, he appointed a period for the discussion of the new laws concerning hereditary rank and privilege; in vain he endeavoured to represent the evil as partial and temporary."
14874,"Several hundreds landed in Ireland, about the first of November, and took possession of such vacant habitations as they could find; seizing upon the superabundant food, and the stray cattle."
14875,"A light railing surrounded the garden of the cottage, which, low roofed, seemed to submit to the majesty of nature, and cower amidst the venerable remains of forgotten time."
14876,England was still secure.
14877,"We know of them, among other things, that they are always to their possessor, when inordinately possessed, a source of the liveliest enjoyment."
14878,"I had done all I could, and hoped I was in time."
14879,"Arter I got the book off Eb I uster look at it a lot, especial when I'd heerd Passon Clark rant o' Sundays in his big wig."
14880,The dogs slavered and crouched close to the feet of the fear numbed family.
14881,Cheers and loud acclamations followed the close of his speech.
14882,"Dupin said the last words in a very low tone, and very quietly."
14883,"It follows that the game of chess, in its effects upon mental character, is greatly misunderstood."
14884,For it had been a man.
14885,"Afternoon was far gone when he reached the foot, and at the bend half way up he paused to scan the outspread countryside golden and glorified in the slanting floods of magic poured out by a western sun."
14886,"Wyatt's three rooms were in the after cabin, which was separated from the main one by a slight sliding door, never locked even at night."
14887,"A number of buildings and trees intervened, when I had reached the plain, hiding the city from my view."
14888,"At the expiration of this period, however, I was thrown into an extremity of agitation by seeing her unfold, for the second time, the eye glass which hung at her side, fully confront me as before, and, disregarding the renewed buzz of the audience, survey me, from head to foot, with the same miraculous composure which had previously so delighted and confounded my soul."
14889,"""For heaven's love Windsor,"" cried Ryland, ""do not mock me with that title."
14890,"One voice made of many voices, resounded through the chamber; it syllabled the name of Raymond."
14891,"Miserable, unhappy wretch ""Other lessons were impressed upon me even more deeply."
14892,"His own view, postulating simply a building and location of markedly unsanitary qualities, had nothing to do with abnormality; but he realised that the very picturesqueness which aroused his own interest would in a boy's fanciful mind take on all manner of gruesome imaginative associations."
14893,"The clocks carved upon the furniture took to dancing as if bewitched, while those upon the mantel pieces could scarcely contain themselves for fury, and kept such a continual striking of thirteen, and such a frisking and wriggling of their pendulums as was really horrible to see."
14894,"For some time he rambled on with an almost feverish geniality, when it struck me to ask him how he came by so rare a book as Pigafetta's Regnum Congo."
14895,A luminous body imparts vibration to the luminiferous ether.
14896,"I quickly collected some branches, but they were wet and would not burn."
14897,They imply that I am a madman or a murderer probably I am mad.
14898,And in this second endeavor I succeeded.
14899,"Many steps above the Marchesa, and within the arch of the water gate, stood, in full dress, the Satyr like figure of Mentoni himself."
14900,"In such a school my disposition became rugged, but firm."
14901,"Company was irksome to me; when alone, I could fill my mind with the sights of heaven and earth; the voice of Henry soothed me, and I could thus cheat myself into a transitory peace."
14902,I now ventured to inquire the cause of the disturbance.
14903,"Throughout the siege of Rome he served bravely in the army of the defenders, and afterward followed the eagles of Belisarius to Alba, Porto, and Centumcellae."
14904,"If I no longer saw the fresh glow of youth on his matured countenance, if care had besieged his brow, ""And dug deep trenches in his beauty's field,"" if his hair, slightly mingled with grey, and his look, considerate even in its eagerness, gave signs of added years and past sufferings, yet there was something irresistibly affecting in the sight of one, lately snatched from the grave, renewing his career, untamed by sickness or disaster."
14905,"More clicking, and after a pause a piteous cry from Warren: ""Beat it For God's sake, put back the slab and beat it, Carter"" Something in the boyish slang of my evidently stricken companion unleashed my faculties."
14906,"The rumour went that Adrian had become how write the fatal word mad: that Lord Raymond was the favourite of the ex queen, her daughter's destined husband."
14907,"After passing several hours, we returned hopeless, most of my companions believing it to have been a form conjured up by my fancy."
14908,"New kinds of faces appeared in The Street; swarthy, sinister faces with furtive eyes and odd features, whose owners spoke unfamiliar words and placed signs in known and unknown characters upon most of the musty houses."
14909,Yet even that enemy of God and man had friends and associates in his desolation; I am alone.
14910,"Blasted as thou wert, my agony was still superior to thine, for the bitter sting of remorse will not cease to rankle in my wounds until death shall close them forever."
14911,"And why did you insist upon letting fall the bug, instead of a bullet, from the skull?"" ""Why, to be frank, I felt somewhat annoyed by your evident suspicions touching my sanity, and so resolved to punish you quietly, in my own way, by a little bit of sober mystification."
14912,One other incident occurred at the end of this summer.
14913,"""You can either conduct yourself as a lady should do, or you can quit the table forthwith take your choice."""
14914,"I, driven half mad, as I met party after party of the country people, in their holiday best, descending the hills, escaped to their cloud veiled summits, and looking on the sterile rocks about me, exclaimed ""They do not cry, long live the Earl"" Nor, when night came, accompanied by drizzling rain and cold, would I return home; for I knew that each cottage rang with the praises of Adrian; as I felt my limbs grow numb and chill, my pain served as food for my insane aversion; nay, I almost triumphed in it, since it seemed to afford me reason and excuse for my hatred of my unheeding adversary."
14915,"Determined upon further exploration, I felt in my pockets for flint and steel, and lit the unused torch which I had with me."
14916,"I had besides many books and a harp with which when despairing I could soothe my spirits, and raise myself to sympathy and love."
14917,"Many months passed, yet in the sour face of Musides came nothing of the sharp expectancy which the situation should arouse."
14918,"Why dost thou howl thus, O wind?"
14919,"Hereditary wealth afforded me an education of no common order, and a contemplative turn of mind enabled me to methodize the stores which early study very diligently garnered up."
14920,"At any rate we always add to our names the initials P. R. E. T. T. Y. B. L. U. E. B. A. T. C. H. that is to say, Philadelphia, Regular, Exchange, Tea, Total, Young, Belles, Lettres, Universal, Experimental, Bibliographical, Association, To, Civilize, Humanity one letter for each word, which is a decided improvement upon Lord Brougham."
14921,"Tell me, can I do nothing?"
14922,It will take an entire hen coop of picked chickens to get over that.
14923,To gain a partial relief from the general tension I busied myself by transferring this hardware to the vacant place with the aid of a handy three in one device including a screw driver which I kept on my key ring.
14924,"Endeavored to make out her name, but could not be sure of it."
14925,"There had been a slight earthquake tremor the night before, the most considerable felt in New England for some years; and Wilcox's imagination had been keenly affected."
14926,"They all died vast epochs of time before men came, but there were arts which could revive Them when the stars had come round again to the right positions in the cycle of eternity."
14927,"I would surely be very glad to get out of malodorous and fear shadowed Innsmouth, and wished there were some other vehicle than the bus driven by that sinister looking fellow Sargent."
14928,"Wolves and lions, and various monsters of the desert roared against him; while the grim Unreality hovered shaking his spectral dart, a solitary but invincible assailant."
14929,"""Him de syfe and de spade what Massa Will sis pon my buying for him in de town, and de debbils own lot of money I had to gib for em."" ""But what, in the name of all that is mysterious, is your 'Massa Will' going to do with scythes and spades?"" ""Dat's more dan I know, and debbil take me if I don't blieve 'tis more dan he know, too."
14930,never heerd o' my pa no more. . .
14931,"A low moan close to her ear followed, and the rustling increased; she heard a smothered voice breathe out, Water, Water several times; and then again a sigh heaved from the heart of the sufferer."
14932,"They were sounds occasioned by the artist in prying open the oblong box, by means of a chisel and mallet the latter being apparently muffled, or deadened, by some soft woollen or cotton substance in which its head was enveloped."
14933,"I tell you, you can't imagine what the thing is really like But I promise to keep you informed over the telephone of every move you see I've enough wire here to reach to the centre of the earth and back"" I can still hear, in memory, those coolly spoken words; and I can still remember my remonstrances."
14934,"M. Krempe had now commenced an eulogy on himself, which happily turned the conversation from a subject that was so annoying to me."
14935,Something in the air of the hoary town worked obscurely on his imagination.
14936,In their origin these laws were fashioned to embrace all contingencies which could lie in the Future.
14937,"I looked on the valley beneath; vast mists were rising from the rivers which ran through it and curling in thick wreaths around the opposite mountains, whose summits were hid in the uniform clouds, while rain poured from the dark sky and added to the melancholy impression I received from the objects around me. Alas Why does man boast of sensibilities superior to those apparent in the brute; it only renders them more necessary beings."
14938,"This, then, was the former Masonic Hall now given over to a degraded cult."
14939,"Thus it was that we lived all alone, knowing nothing of the world without the valley I, and my cousin, and her mother."
14940,"The silly moon and inconstant planets vary nightly their erratic dance; the sun itself, sovereign of the sky, ever and anon deserts his throne, and leaves his dominion to night and winter."
14941,"Fifteen months after their marriage I was born, and my mother died a few days after my birth."
14942,"""The author's observations on the artificial style,"" continued Ellison, ""are less objectionable."
14943,"The scenery of external nature, which others regard only with admiration, he loved with ardour: The sounding cataract Haunted him like a passion: the tall rock, The mountain, and the deep and gloomy wood, Their colours and their forms, were then to him An appetite; a feeling, and a love, That had no need of a remoter charm, By thought supplied, or any interest Unborrow'd from the eye."
14944,It was indeed in the place where I had seemed to see it.
14945,For some time I sat upon the rock that overlooks the sea of ice.
14946,"I found Merrival, the astronomer, with her."
14947,Once he heard of a man in the South who was shunned and feared for the blasphemous things he read in prehistoric books and clay tablets smuggled from India and Arabia.
14948,"Soon her door opened softly, and on her springing up, she heard a whisper, ""Not asleep yet,"" and the door again closed."
14949,"In the place of conical hats and muskets there were three cornered hats and small swords, and lace and snowy periwigs."
14950,"This may be the practice in law, but it is not the usage of reason."
14951,I heard all things in the heaven and in the earth.
14952,"These men, I say, theorize; and their theories are simply corrected, reduced, systematized cleared, little by little, of their dross of inconsistency until, finally, a perfect consistency stands apparent which even the most stolid admit, because it is a consistency, to be an absolute and an unquestionable truth."
14953,Let me then remember.
14954,"The old man's whisper grew fainter, and I found myself shuddering at the terrible and sincere portentousness of his intonation, even though I knew his tale could be nothing but drunken phantasy."
14955,But my attention was not confined to theories alone.
14956,A mountain walked or stumbled.
14957,"As we crossed into this street, a fruiterer, with a large basket upon his head, brushing quickly past us, thrust you upon a pile of paving stones collected at a spot where the causeway is undergoing repair."
14958,"To be brief upon a vile topic, none of the low finesse was omitted, so customary upon similar occasions that it is a just matter for wonder how any are still found so besotted as to fall its victim."
14959,There was Delphinus Polyglott.
14960,"I say insufferable; for the feeling was unrelieved by any of that half pleasurable, because poetic, sentiment, with which the mind usually receives even the sternest natural images of the desolate or terrible."
14961,The Irish followed their track in disorganized multitudes; each day encreasing; each day becoming more lawless.
14962,"Life is a hideous thing, and from the background behind what we know of it peer daemoniacal hints of truth which make it sometimes a thousandfold more hideous."
14963,I journied all day; every moment my misery encreased and the fever of my blood became intolerable.
14964,No incidents have hitherto befallen us that would make a figure in a letter.
14965,"The young woman arranged the cottage and prepared the food, and the youth departed after the first meal."
14966,"Over the library mantel in his home hung the exact replica of that picture, and all his life he had known and loved its original."
14967,"This was certainly the Sibyl's Cave; not indeed exactly as Virgil describes it, but the whole of this land had been so convulsed by earthquake and volcano, that the change was not wonderful, though the traces of ruin were effaced by time; and we probably owed the preservation of these leaves, to the accident which had closed the mouth of the cavern, and the swift growing vegetation which had rendered its sole opening impervious to the storm."
14968,Mathematical axioms are not axioms of general truth.
14969,"In truth, while that merit which consists in the mere avoiding demerit, appeals directly to the understanding, and can thus be foreshadowed in Rule, the loftier merit, which breathes and flames in invention or creation, can be apprehended solely in its results."
14970,"Furtive, shambling creatures stared cryptically in my direction, and more normal faces eyed me coldly and curiously."
14971,"""We had; but the reward offered is prodigious"" ""You include the grounds about the houses?"""
14972,If thrown from the shore a weight would have been attached.
14973,"Oh, my beloved father Indeed you made me miserable beyond all words, but how truly did I even then forgive you, and how entirely did you possess my whole heart while I endeavoured, as a rainbow gleams upon a cataract,D to soften thy tremendous sorrows."
14974,"As night advanced I placed a variety of combustibles around the cottage, and after having destroyed every vestige of cultivation in the garden, I waited with forced impatience until the moon had sunk to commence my operations."
14975,"""Assuredly a most benignant power built up the majestic fabric we inhabit, and framed the laws by which it endures."
14976,"""We'd better both go,"" he whispered."
14977,Vision or nightmare it may have been vision or nightmare I fervently hope it was yet it is all that my mind retains of what took place in those shocking hours after we left the sight of men.
14978,"In the winter of , however, the dreams began."
14979,"This, then, is the object of the present paper."
14980,I cannot say much in praise of such a life; and its pains far exceeded its pleasures.
14981,"I found another and a valuable link to enchain me to my fellow creatures; my point of sight was extended, and the inclinations and capacities of all human beings became deeply interesting to me."
14982,Might not this be the case with Mr. Windenough?
14983,"Having, as I thought, sufficiently collected my ideas, I now, with great caution and deliberation, put my hands behind my back, and unfastened the large iron buckle which belonged to the waistband of my inexpressibles."
14984,"He is a mathematician, and no poet."""
14985,"""Carter hurry It's no use you must go better one than two the slab "" A pause, more clicking, then the faint voice of Warren: ""Nearly over now don't make it harder cover up those damned steps and run for your life you're losing time So long, Carter won't see you again."""
14986,"Each day the soldiers of the garrison assaulted our advanced posts, and impeded the accomplishment of our works."
14987,His Grace thought of his game.
14988,"The summer passed tediously, for we trusted that winter would at least check the disease."
14989,"While on the subject of names, by the bye, I may mention a singular coincidence of sound attending the names of some of my immediate predecessors."
14990,"Accustomed as I am to this mode of travelling, I cannot get over a kind of giddiness whenever a balloon passes us in a current directly overhead."
14991,"A slight noise attracted my notice, and, looking to the floor, I saw several enormous rats traversing it."
14992,"That bearded host seemed young, yet looked out of eyes steeped in the elder mysteries; and from the tales of marvellous ancient things he related, it must be guessed that the village folk were right in saying he had communed with the mists of the sea and the clouds of the sky ever since there was any village to watch his taciturn dwelling from the plain below."
14993,"Ten thousand thanks to Henry for his kindness, his affection, and his many letters; we are sincerely grateful."
14994,"Opening into the garret where they caught him, was a closet, ten feet by eight, fitted up with some chemical apparatus, of which the object has not yet been ascertained."
14995,"The tale was quickly told, but it awakened various trains of reflection."
14996,And in front of the fireplace was no vestige of the giant doubled up form in nitre.
14997,"Adrian, whose health had always been weak, now suffered considerable aggravation of suffering from the effects of his wound."
14998,"Then I told him what I had found in an old diary kept between and , unearthed among family papers not a mile from where we were sitting; that, and the certain reality of the scars on my ancestor's chest and back which the diary described."
