14999,"The houses were tall, peaked roofed, incredibly old, and crazily leaning backward, forward, and sidewise."
15000,"It lay beneath me like a chart and although I judged it to be still at no inconsiderable distance, the indentures of its surface were defined to my vision with a most striking and altogether unaccountable distinctness."
15001,"I asked, rubbing my hands over the blaze, and wishing the whole tribe of scarabæi at the devil."
15002,"Fire, the sword, and plague They may all be found in yonder city; on my head alone may they fall"" From this day Raymond's melancholy increased."
15003,"This time, on the fourteenth of November, my quest concerned itself mostly with the slopes of Cone Mountain and Maple Hill where they overlook the unfortunate hamlet, and I gave particular attention to the loose earth of the landslide region on the latter eminence."
15004,"Had my uncle referred to these cases by name instead of merely by number, I should have attempted some corroboration and personal investigation; but as it was, I succeeded in tracing down only a few."
15005,"With the first glimpse we obtain of it, the dawn of our success shall begin."
15006,"The idea of renewing my labours did not for one instant occur to me; the threat I had heard weighed on my thoughts, but I did not reflect that a voluntary act of mine could avert it."
15007,"He might with equal interest to us, have added a commentary, to describe the unknown and unimaginable lineaments of the creatures, who would then occupy the vacated dwelling of mankind."
15008,"I stepped on it, and fell violently on my face."
15009,"Alas the grim legion of sepulchral terrors cannot be regarded as altogether fanciful but, like the Demons in whose company Afrasiab made his voyage down the Oxus, they must sleep, or they will devour us they must be suffered to slumber, or we perish."
15010,"Perdita, in whom ambition was a covered fire until she married Raymond, which event was for a time the fulfilment of her hopes; Perdita will rejoice in the glory and advancement of her lord and, coyly and prettily, not be discontented with her share."
15011,"He had had much trouble in discovering the proper formula, for each type of organism was found to need a stimulus especially adapted to it."
15012,"The poop and beak of this boat arise high above the water, with sharp points, so that the general form is that of an irregular crescent."
15013,"NO MORE remarkable man ever lived than my friend, the young Ellison."
15014,"Of the cult, he said that he thought the centre lay amid the pathless deserts of Arabia, where Irem, the City of Pillars, dreams hidden and untouched."
15015,"After doing this, I really do not perceive that you can do any more."
15016,"From the swarming streets to the banks of the river, there descended innumerable flights of steps leading to bathing places, while the river itself seemed to force a passage with difficulty through the vast fleets of deeply burthened ships that far and wide encountered its surface."
15017,"The field of sculpture, although in its nature rigidly poetical, was too limited in its extent and in its consequences, to have occupied, at any time, much of his attention."
15018,"When it had become definitely known that such was the enormous wealth inherited, there were, of course, many speculations as to the mode of its disposal."
15019,Do you understand Mr. Rumgudgeon?
15020,In the privacy of his bureau he reclined languidly on that ottoman for which he sacrificed his loyalty in outbidding his king the notorious ottoman of Cadet.
15021,"While I stood thus in despair, conversing with a trio of friends upon the all absorbing subject of my heart, it so happened that the subject itself passed by."
15022,"The park was speckled by tents, whose flaunting colours and gaudy flags, waving in the sunshine, added to the gaiety of the scene."
15023,She answered the one with a gush of tears telling me that to be persuaded life and the goods of life were a cheap exchange.
15024,"I had heard no speech so far in this quarter, and was unaccountably anxious not to do so."
15025,"Here were the most entirely even, and the most brilliantly white of all conceivable teeth."
15026,"And all this, to be sure, was delicately put; not in broad words for my feelings might be hurt but Whispered so and so In dark hint soft and lowE with downcast eyes, and sympathizing smiles or whimpers; and I listened with quiet countenance while every nerve trembled; I that dared not utter aye or no to all this blasphemy."
15027,Do you remember on what occasion Justine Moritz entered our family?
15028,"The circumstance of the first elopement, as mentioned by Le Mercurie, tends to blend the idea of this seaman with that of the 'naval officer' who is first known to have led the unfortunate into crime."
15029,"I have a distinct recollection of frequently compressing my lips, putting my forefinger to the side of my nose, and making use of other gesticulations and grimaces common to men who, at ease in their arm chairs, meditate upon matters of intricacy or importance."
15030,"Undisturbed by oppressive reflections on the time, the place, and the company beneath his feet, he philosophically chipped away the stony brickwork; cursing when a fragment hit him in the face, and laughing when one struck the increasingly excited horse that pawed near the cypress tree."
15031,"The least congenial Member was one of the Founders, Sir John Hawkins, who hath since written many misrepresentations of our Society."
15032,"Simultaneously there developed something like a cold draught, which apparently swept past me from the direction of the distant sound."
15033,Animal fury and orgiastic licence here whipped themselves to daemoniac heights by howls and squawking ecstasies that tore and reverberated through those nighted woods like pestilential tempests from the gulfs of hell.
15034,"""Yes; I promise; and now let us be off, for we have no time to lose."""
15035,"And now, at last, as if by the rush of an ocean, my shuddering spirit is overwhelmed by the one grim Danger by the one spectral and ever prevalent idea."
15036,"The decay was worst close to the waterfront, though in its very midst I could spy the white belfry of a fairly well preserved brick structure which looked like a small factory."
15037,It's just over your left shoulder. . .
15038,"He was very deliberate, and spoke with an air of feeling slightly superior to what he said."
15039,It had escaped even the cutting bureau which had at the time of its issuance been avidly collecting material for my uncle's research.
15040,"We should bear in mind that, in general, it is the object of our newspapers rather to create a sensation to make a point than to further the cause of truth."
15041,"But he was checked; Evadne exacted a promise, that he should conceal from all her friends her existence in England."
15042,Let a veil be drawn over the unimaginable sensations of a guilty father; the secrets of so agonized a heart may not be made vulgar.
15043,"My descent, which claimed interest, if not respect, my former connection with Adrian, the favour of the ambassador, whose secretary I had been, and now my intimacy with Lord Raymond, gave me easy access to the fashionable and political circles of England."
15044,"""I must say also a few words to you, my dear cousin, of little darling William."
15045,"Indeed, during the brief period of her existence, the latter had received no impressions from the outward world, save such as might have been afforded by the narrow limits of her privacy."
15046,"Is not this a free country?"" ""Ay, sir, free enough for honest folks."
15047,Ellison became neither musician nor poet; although no man lived more profoundly enamored of music and poetry.
15048,"If your whole soul does not urge you to forgive me if your entire heart does not open wide its door to admit me to its very centre, forsake me, never speak to me again."
15049,"An unaccountable, and what I am compelled to consider a magnetic, sympathy of soul for soul, seemed to rivet, not only my vision, but my whole powers of thought and feeling, upon the admirable object before me."
15050,"The sciences, each straining in its own direction, have hitherto harmed us little; but some day the piecing together of dissociated knowledge will open up such terrifying vistas of reality, and of our frightful position therein, that we shall either go mad from the revelation or flee from the deadly light into the peace and safety of a new dark age."
15051,"There were other points to be ascertained, but these most excited my curiosity the last in especial, from the immensely important character of its consequences."
15052,"""'Where do these friends reside?' ""'Near this spot.'"
15053,"They sigh one unto the other in that solitude, and stretch towards the heaven their long and ghastly necks, and nod to and fro their everlasting heads."
15054,"""A thousand pounds,"" said I. ""A thousand pounds?"" said he. ""Precisely,"" said I. ""A thousand pounds?"" said he. ""Just so,"" said I. ""You shall have them,"" said he. ""What a piece of virtu"" So he drew me a check upon the spot, and took a sketch of my nose."
15055,My passionate and indignant appeals were lost upon them.
15056,"We've had enough of the other stuff, but I for one need something."
15057,"""Oh, no, fie Robert's not quite so bad as that."
15058,"To judge from the external appearance of the box, it is divided into five compartments three cupboards of equal dimensions, and two drawers occupying that portion of the chest lying beneath the cupboards."
15059,"Thus, losing our identity, that of which we are chiefly conscious, we glory in the continuity of our species, and learn to regard death without terror."
15060,"While I thus feasted my eyes, I perceived, at last, to my great trepidation, by an almost imperceptible start on the part of the lady, that she had become suddenly aware of the intensity of my gaze."
15061,"""The three of us my two brothers and myself had crossed over to the islands about two o'clock P. M., and had soon nearly loaded the smack with fine fish, which, we all remarked, were more plenty that day than we had ever known them."
15062,"The mantelpieces are wide and high, and have not only time pieces and cabbages sculptured over the front, but a real time piece, which makes a prodigious ticking, on the top in the middle, with a flower pot containing a cabbage standing on each extremity by way of outrider."
15063,For there was yet another tenant of our chamber in the person of young Zoilus.
15064,"The principle of the vis inertiæ, for example, seems to be identical in physics and metaphysics."
15065,"I almost saw them, but I knew how to stop."
15066,"The slight elevation which formed the lower boundary of this little domain, was crowned by a neat stone wall, of sufficient height to prevent the escape of the deer."
15067,"The attempt, however, was enough to disturb my balance; so that I had to stagger forward several steps to avoid falling."
15068,"This he would sometimes draw from his tattered pocket, carefully unwrap from its covering of tissue paper, and gaze upon for hours with an expression of ineffable sadness and tenderness."
15069,"He besought me, therefore, to leave my solitary isle and to meet him at Perth, that we might proceed southwards together."
15070,"From that chamber, and from that mansion, I fled aghast."
15071,The patient's extremities were of an icy coldness.
15072,"In short, the good burghers were fond of their sauer kraut, but then they were proud of their clocks."
15073,"Idris could not refrain from a smile, as she listened; she had already gathered from him that his family was alive and in health; though not apt to forget the precipice of time on which she stood, yet I could perceive that she was amused for a moment, by the contrast between the contracted view we had so long taken of human life, and the seven league strides with which Merrival paced a coming eternity."
15074,"For the aeons that I dwelt there I wandered blissfully through gardens where quaint pagodas peep from pleasing clumps of bushes, and where the white walks are bordered with delicate blossoms."
15075,"Write 'Il pover 'huomo che non se'n era accorto, Andava combattendo, e era morto.' ""That's Italian, you perceive from Ariosto."
15076,"They're hard to get started, but once they do get started they never let up."
15077,"""It is,"" said Dupin; ""and, upon inquiring of the boy by what means he effected the thorough identification in which his success consisted, I received answer as follows: 'When I wish to find out how wise, or how stupid, or how good, or how wicked is any one, or what are his thoughts at the moment, I fashion the expression of my face, as accurately as possible, in accordance with the expression of his, and then wait to see what thoughts or sentiments arise in my mind or heart, as if to match or correspond with the expression.'"
15078,"""Superb"" said his guests: and next morning her Grace of Bless my Soul paid me a visit."
15079,"His passions, always his masters, acquired fresh strength, from the long sleep in which love had cradled them, the clinging weight of destiny bent him down; he was goaded, tortured, fiercely impatient of that worst of miseries, the sense of remorse."
15080,"We put the boat on the wind, but could make no headway at all for the eddies, and I was upon the point of proposing to return to the anchorage, when, looking astern, we saw the whole horizon covered with a singular copper colored cloud that rose with the most amazing velocity."
15081,That night something of youth and beauty died in the elder world.
15082,"Yet I remember ah how should I forget? the deep midnight, the Bridge of Sighs, the beauty of woman, and the Genius of Romance that stalked up and down the narrow canal."
15083,For at a closer glance I saw that the moonlit waters between the reef and the shore were far from empty.
15084,"As to the where, it was Yorktown wherever that was, and as to the what, it was General Cornwallis no doubt some wealthy dealer in corn."
15085,"In short, no position can be attained on the wide surface of the natural earth, from which an artistical eye, looking steadily, will not find matter of offence in what is termed the ""composition"" of the landscape."
15086,"But now they have betaken themselves to unknown Kadath in the cold waste where no man treads, and are grown stern, having no higher peak whereto to flee at the coming of men."
15087,"My uncle blamed his old age, Wilcox afterward said, for his slowness in recognising both hieroglyphics and pictorial design."
15088,"I shall discharge this decanter of wine at your image in yonder mirror, and thus fulfil all the spirit, if not the exact letter, of resentment for your insult, while the necessity of physical violence to your real person will be obviated."""
15089,Yet these noble exceptions from the general misrule served but to strengthen it by opposition.
15090,"But may God shield and deliver me from the fangs of the Arch Fiend No sooner had the reverberation of my blows sunk into silence, than I was answered by a voice from within the tomb by a cry, at first muffled and broken, like the sobbing of a child, and then quickly swelling into one long, loud, and continuous scream, utterly anomalous and inhuman a howl a wailing shriek, half of horror and half of triumph, such as might have arisen only out of hell, conjointly from the throats of the dammed in their agony and of the demons that exult in the damnation."
15091,Audacity: Your diddler is audacious.
15092,The vibrations generate similar ones within the retina; these again communicate similar ones to the optic nerve.
15093,"Leaving doors No. and No. open as well as the drawer, and door No. I, the exhibiter now goes round to the back of the main compartment, and, unlocking another door there, displays clearly all the interior of the main compartment, by introducing a candle behind it and within it."
15094,"For three months Keziah and Brown Jenkin had not been near Joe's room, nor near Paul Choynski's room, nor anywhere else and it meant no good when they held off like that."
15095,"The editor here proceeds to argue that the body must have been in the water ""not three days merely, but, at least, five times three days,"" because it was so far decomposed that Beauvais had great difficulty in recognizing it."
15096,"He injected new blood, joined certain veins, arteries, and nerves at the headless neck, and closed the ghastly aperture with engrafted skin from an unidentified specimen which had borne an officer's uniform."
15097,"It was not, and could not have been, arrived at by any inductive reasoning."
15098,I have loved thee; and in my days both of happiness and sorrow I have peopled your solitudes with wild fancies of my own creation.
15099,"This I could scarcely have believed had it been anybody but Mr. Blackwood, who assured me of it."
15100,It was almost impossible to believe that they were not absolutely suspended in the air.
15101,"No? Wal, Mis' Corey, ef they was on the glen rud this side o' the glen, an' ain't got to your haouse yet, I calc'late they must go into the glen itself."
15102,"The citizens talked with one another of the affair, and marvelled not a little."
15103,On the roof is a vast quantity of tiles with long curly ears.
15104,I am placed in the most difficult circumstances.
15105,"Let me find the earthly dwelling of my beloved; let us rescue that from common dust, so that in times to come men may point to the sacred tomb, and name it his then to other thoughts, and a new course of life, or what else fate, in her cruel tyranny, may have marked out for me."""
15106,"'Come quickly, O death but be sure and don't let me see you coming, lest the pleasure I shall feel at your appearance should unfortunately bring me back again to life.'"
15107,"I was now trying to get the better of the stupor that had come over me, and to collect my senses so as to see what was to be done, when I felt somebody grasp my arm."
15108,"Tell me, dearest Victor."
15109,"That evening, just as twilight fell, he finished his terrible perusal and sank back exhausted."
15110,Your objection is answered with an ease which is nearly in the ratio of its apparent unanswerability.
15111,"She told me that all the family were dead, except Merrival himself, who had gone mad mad, she called it, yet on questioning her further, it appeared that he was possessed only by the delirium of excessive grief."
15112,"I refer to a sort of cloudy whitish pattern on the dirt floor a vague, shifting deposit of mould or nitre which we sometimes thought we could trace amidst the sparse fungous growths near the huge fireplace of the basement kitchen."
15113,"Although he deserts his post in London, he may be of the greatest service in the north of England, by receiving and assisting travellers, and contributing to supply the metropolis with food."
15114,"Then beyond the hill's crest I saw Kingsport outspread frostily in the gloaming; snowy Kingsport with its ancient vanes and steeples, ridgepoles and chimney pots, wharves and small bridges, willow trees and graveyards; endless labyrinths of steep, narrow, crooked streets, and dizzy church crowned central peak that time durst not touch; ceaseless mazes of colonial houses piled and scattered at all angles and levels like a child's disordered blocks; antiquity hovering on grey wings over winter whitened gables and gambrel roofs; fanlights and small paned windows one by one gleaming out in the cold dusk to join Orion and the archaic stars."
15115,Still I was at a loss to gather the purport of his disconnected speech.
15116,During this voyage we passed many willowy islands and saw several beautiful towns.
15117,"I bought, for a song, a sixteenth of the ""Snapping Turtle"": that was all."
15118,Soon these burning miseries will be extinct.
15119,"And for this reason when a man's diddled we say he's ""done."""
15120,"There Mazurewicz had found something monstrous or thought he had, for no one else could quite agree with him despite the undeniable queerness of the prints."
15121,She came and departed as a shadow.
15122,"In stature he is nearly my own height; that is, about five feet eight inches."
15123,"Elizabeth, my love, you must supply my place to my younger children."
15124,"Observe, here, the laughable confusion of thought No one not even L'Etoile disputes the murder committed on the body found."
15125,No sooner had the venerable practitioner saved his colleague than he himself succumbed to the grim enemy he had fought.
15126,"I now considered that, provided in my passage I found the medium I had imagined, and provided that it should prove to be actually and essentially what we denominate atmospheric air, it could make comparatively little difference at what extreme state of rarefaction I should discover it that is to say, in regard to my power of ascending for the gas in the balloon would not only be itself subject to rarefaction partially similar in proportion to the occurrence of which, I could suffer an escape of so much as would be requisite to prevent explosion, but, being what it was, would, at all events, continue specifically lighter than any compound whatever of mere nitrogen and oxygen."
15127,"Even I, depressed in mind, and my spirits continually agitated by gloomy feelings, even I was pleased."
15128,"The main fury of the blast had already blown over, and we apprehended little danger from the violence of the wind; but we looked forward to its total cessation with dismay; well believing, that, in our shattered condition, we should inevitably perish in the tremendous swell which would ensue."
15129,"Disliking the dinginess of the single restaurant I had seen, I bought a fair supply of cheese crackers and ginger wafers to serve as a lunch later on."
15130,"Why should he lose this, now that added years, prudence, and the pledge which his marriage gave to his country, ought to encrease, rather than diminish his claims to confidence?"
15131,Spells might be all right but suppose they weren't?
15132,"I shuddered as I assigned to them in imagination a sensitive and sentient power, and even when unassisted by the lips, a capability of moral expression."
15133,"The dissecting room and the slaughter house furnished many of my materials; and often did my human nature turn with loathing from my occupation, whilst, still urged on by an eagerness which perpetually increased, I brought my work near to a conclusion."
15134,"This object was the partly crushed skeleton of a huge, diseased rat, whose abnormalities of form are still a topic of debate and source of singular reticence among the members of Miskatonic's department of comparative anatomy."
15135,"The forms of those bodies are accurately such as, within a given surface, to include the greatest possible amount of matter; while the surfaces themselves are so disposed as to accommodate a denser population than could be accommodated on the same surfaces otherwise arranged."
15136,"similarly entitled, the perpetration of a miserable penny a liner, mendicant, and cut throat, connected in the capacity of scullion, we believe, with one of the indecent prints about the purlieus of the city; we beg them, for God's sake, not to confound the compositions."
15137,"We shall see that at which dogs howl in the dark, and that at which cats prick up their ears after midnight."
15138,"""You begin late,"" said I, ironically, ""marriage is usually considered the grave, and not the cradle of love."
15139,Then he had departed alone.
15140,"He, her beloved, the sole and eternal object of her passionate tenderness, was restored her."
15141,"""The sun rose; I heard the voices of men and knew that it was impossible to return to my retreat during that day."
15142,"They had hanged four kinsmen of mine for witchcraft in , but I did not know just where."
15143,"To accomplish the great desideratum of ærial navigation, it was very generally supposed that some exceedingly complicated application must be made of some unusually profound principle in dynamics."
15144,"My honor is interested, and, to mention a great secret, the reward is enormous."
15145,"""Come in,"" said Dupin, in a cheerful and hearty tone."
15146,"Yet she was meanly dressed, a coarse blue petticoat and a linen jacket being her only garb; her fair hair was plaited but not adorned: she looked patient yet sad."
15147,"I did not see him: my soul was in my words, my eyes could not perceive that which was; while a vision of Adrian's form, tainted by pestilence, and sinking in death, floated before them."
15148,"I knew what the old man felt, and pitied him, although I chuckled at heart."
15149,"They put it into a bed and rubbed it, and Daniel went to the town for an apothecary, but life was quite gone."
15150,"In his teeth the villain held the bell rope, which he kept jerking about with his head, raising such a clatter that my ears ring again even to think of it."
15151,The old bookseller had told him that only five copies were known to have survived the shocked edicts of the priests and lawgivers against it and that all of these were locked up with frightened care by custodians who had ventured to begin a reading of the hateful black letter.
15152,"A tub had caught all ha ha When I had made an end of these labors, it was four o'clock still dark as midnight."
15153,"My health and appearance grew steadily worse, till finally I was forced to give up my position and adopt the static, secluded life of an invalid."
15154,"We ascertain, too, very distinctly, from this admirable inscription, the how as well as the where and the what, of the great surrender in question."
15155,"With a beating heart she expected another visit, and when after an interval her chamber was again invaded, having first assured herself that the intruders were her mother and an attendant, she composed herself to feigned sleep."
15156,"The tears rushed into the eyes of Idris, while Alfred and Evelyn brought now a favourite rose tree, now a marble vase beautifully carved, insisting that these must go, and exclaiming on the pity that we could not take the castle and the forest, the deer and the birds, and all accustomed and cherished objects along with us."
15157,"""But then,"" cried the old lady, at the top of her voice, ""your Monsieur Boullard was a madman, and a very silly madman at best; for who, allow me to ask you, ever heard of a human tee totum?"
15158,"I said to myself, let him receive sympathy and these struggles will cease."
15159,"They were not altogether crows, nor moles, nor buzzards, nor ants, nor vampire bats, nor decomposed human beings; but something I cannot and must not recall."
15160,"It will be found, in fact, that the ingenious are always fanciful, and the truly imaginative never otherwise than analytic."
15161,"Seething, stewing, surging, bubbling like serpents' slime it rolled up and out of that yawning hole, spreading like a septic contagion and streaming from the cellar at every point of egress streaming out to scatter through the accursed midnight forests and strew fear, madness, and death."
15162,No one certainly ever enjoyed the pleasures of composition more intensely than I.
15163,"""Having adopted this view of the subject, I had little further hesitation."
15164,"I had written so much to the proconsul that he had become gravely interested, and had resolved to make a personal inquiry into the horror."
15165,"Perhaps its effects are not so permanent; but they are, while they last, as violent and intense."
15166,"He was watching the rising sun, while with one arm he encircled his beloved's waist; she looked on him, the sun of her life, with earnest gaze of mingled anxiety and tenderness."
15167,"He guessed it was in the attic at home in Boston, and dimly remembered bribing Parks with half his week's allowance to help him open the box and keep quiet about it; but when he remembered this, the face of Parks came up very strangely, as if the wrinkles of long years had fallen upon the brisk little Cockney."
15168,When I had lived here some time other animals visited me and a fox came every day for a portion of food appropriated for him would suffer me to pat his head.
15169,"There were, then, no secret issues."
15170,"A small island, fairly laughing with flowers in full bloom, and affording little more space than just enough for a picturesque little building, seemingly a fowl house arose from the lake not far from its northern shore to which it was connected by means of an inconceivably light looking and yet very primitive bridge."
15171,"Proceeding, in the same direction, yet another thousand miles, I anticipate the rising by two hours another thousand, and I anticipate it by three hours, and so on, until I go entirely round the globe, and back to this spot, when, having gone twenty four thousand miles east, I anticipate the rising of the London sun by no less than twenty four hours; that is to say, I am a day in advance of your time."
15172,"On drawing nearer to this, however, its chasm like appearance vanishes; a new outlet from the bay is discovered to the left in which direction the wall is also seen to sweep, still following the general course of the stream."
15173,"""I thank you,"" he replied, ""for your sympathy, but it is useless; my fate is nearly fulfilled."
15174,"The night waned; and still, with a bosom full of bitter thoughts of the one only and supremely beloved, I remained gazing upon the body of Rowena."
15175,"""Ugh ugh ugh"" chuckled Tarpaulin without heeding the general excitation, ""ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh I was saying,"" said he, ""I was saying when Mr. King Pest poked in his marlin spike, that as for the matter of two or three gallons more or less of Black Strap, it was a trifle to a tight sea boat like myself not overstowed but when it comes to drinking the health of the Devil whom God assoilzie and going down upon my marrow bones to his ill favored majesty there, whom I know, as well as I know myself to be a sinner, to be nobody in the whole world, but Tim Hurlygurly the stage player why it's quite another guess sort of a thing, and utterly and altogether past my comprehension."""
15176,"""Every conversation of the cottagers now opened new wonders to me."
15177,"I seemed desperately anxious to accompany my friend into those sepulchral depths, yet he proved inflexibly obdurate."
15178,"In the cell with us was one nurse, a mediocre fellow who did not understand the purpose of the apparatus, or think to inquire into my course."
15179,"The generous nature of Safie was outraged by this command; she attempted to expostulate with her father, but he left her angrily, reiterating his tyrannical mandate."
15180,"The play was Macbeth the first actor of the age was there to exert his powers to drug with irreflection the auditors; such a medicine I yearned for, so I entered."
15181,"Besides this ship, I saw nothing but the ocean and the sky, and the sun, which had long arisen."
15182,"I have heard him called inconstant of purpose when he deserted, for the sake of love, the hope of sovereignty, and when he abdicated the protectorship of England, men blamed his infirmity of purpose."
15183,"Upon this latter shelf, and exactly beneath one of the rims of the keg, a small earthern pitcher was deposited."
15184,My attention at this time was solely directed towards my plan of introducing myself into the cottage of my protectors.
15185,I know what has happened.
15186,"I was not so seriously hurt, but was covered with welts and contusions of the most bewildering character, including the print of a split hoof."
15187,"After he went to Ireland Barry wrote me often, and told me how under his care the grey castle was rising tower by tower to its ancient splendour; how the ivy was climbing slowly over the restored walls as it had climbed so many centuries ago, and how the peasants blessed him for bringing back the old days with his gold from over the sea."
15188,"It is a foolish sentiment for one who is not a materialist, yet, methinks, even in that dark cell, I may feel that my inanimate dust mingles with yours, and thus have a companion in decay."""
15189,"For the first time the feelings of revenge and hatred filled my bosom, and I did not strive to control them, but allowing myself to be borne away by the stream, I bent my mind towards injury and death."
15190,The individual who purloined it is known; this beyond a doubt; he was seen to take it.
15191,"Here it is: ""'A good glass in the bishop's hostel in the devil's seat forty one degrees and thirteen minutes northeast and by north main branch seventh limb east side shoot from the left eye of the death's head a bee line from the tree through the shot fifty feet out.'"""
15192,"""The fruiterer you astonish me I know no fruiterer whomsoever."""
15193,"Their waving translucent arms, guided by the detestable piping of those unseen flutes, beckoned in uncanny rhythm to a throng of lurching labourers who followed dog like with blind, brainless, floundering steps as if dragged by a clumsy but resistless daemon will."
15194,"But save for his face, Romero was not in any way suggestive of nobility."
15195,"Books, indeed, were his sole luxuries, and in Paris these are easily obtained."
15196,"We caught him flying, all smoking and foaming with rage, from the burning stables of the Castle Berlifitzing."
15197,"From bowers beyond our view came bursts of song and snatches of lyric harmony, interspersed with faint laughter so delicious that I urged the rowers onward in my eagerness to reach the scene."
15198,"""Let us reflect now upon 'the traces of a struggle;' and let me ask what these traces have been supposed to demonstrate."
15199,"His limbs were in proportion, and I had selected his features as beautiful."
15200,"No sofa has been sold no money received except by the diddler, who played shop keeper for the nonce."
15201,"""For my part,"" said I, ""I am too well convinced of the worth of our friend, and the rich harvest of benefits that all England would reap from his Protectorship, to deprive my countrymen of such a blessing, if he consent to bestow it on them."""
15202,"I was anxious and watchful, while my right hand grasped a pistol which was hidden in my bosom; every sound terrified me, but I resolved that I would sell my life dearly and not shrink from the conflict until my own life or that of my adversary was extinguished."
15203,"I awoke to red madness and the mockery of diabolism, as farther and farther down inconceivable vistas that phobic and crystalline anguish retreated and reverberated."
15204,"They said it had been there before D'Iberville, before La Salle, before the Indians, and before even the wholesome beasts and birds of the woods."
15205,It lies on the surface of the bay with the proud grace of a swan.
15206,"A shriek had been heard by a neighbour during the night; suspicion of foul play had been aroused; information had been lodged at the police office, and they the officers had been deputed to search the premises."
15207,"This mistake made a difference of about two inches and a half in the 'shot' that is to say, in the position of the peg nearest the tree; and had the treasure been beneath the 'shot,' the error would have been of little moment; but 'the shot,' together with the nearest point of the tree, were merely two points for the establishment of a line of direction; of course the error, however trivial in the beginning, increased as we proceeded with the line, and by the time we had gone fifty feet, threw us quite off the scent."
15208,"When they got old an' begun to shew it, they was kep' hid until they felt like takin' to the water an' quittin' the place."
15209,"In an instant afterward he rapped, with a gentle touch, at my door, and entered, bearing a lamp."
15210,"The lurking fear dwelt in the shunned and deserted Martense mansion, which crowned the high but gradual eminence whose liability to frequent thunderstorms gave it the name of Tempest Mountain."
15211,"Perhaps you will have the goodness to promise me not to marry during that interval?"""
15212,"She is a widow, and much older than Manoir; but she is very much admired, and a favourite with everybody."
15213,His name is a derivation of the Greek Simia what great fools are antiquarians But see see yonder scampers a ragged little urchin.
15214,"In a fit of heroism I determined to go alone; to quit you, the life of my life, and not to see you again untill I might guiltlessly."
15215,"This, however, did not vex me; it would not be heard through the wall."
15216,On the same day I paid M. Waldman a visit.
15217,"""You clothe your meaning, Perdita,"" I replied, ""in powerful words, yet that meaning is selfish and unworthy of you."
15218,I should certainly have died if you had not hastened to me.
15219,"In subsequent decades as new inventions, new names, and new events appeared one by one in the book of history, people would now and then recall wonderingly how Carter had years before let fall some careless word of undoubted connexion with what was then far in the future."
15220,"The first was, that, as a general rule, the larger the bodies were, the more rapid their descent the second, that, between two masses of equal extent, the one spherical, and the other of any other shape, the superiority in speed of descent was with the sphere the third, that, between two masses of equal size, the one cylindrical, and the other of any other shape, the cylinder was absorbed the more slowly."
15221,"Have I not succeeded in breaking down the barrier; have I not shewn you worlds that no other living men have seen?"""
15222,"And day by day that Romnod who had been a small boy in granite Teloth grew coarser and redder with wine, till he dreamed less and less, and listened with less delight to the songs of Iranon."
15223,"In the final of the Somnambula, she brought about a most remarkable effect at the words: Ah non guinge uman pensiero Al contento ond 'io son piena."
15224,"Yes he was really forming words, and I could grasp a fair proportion of them."
15225,"The alteration, however, in the entire expression of the General's countenance was instantaneous and surprising."
15226,"It had been originally written London, and afterwards carefully overscored not, however, so effectually as to conceal the word from a scrutinizing eye."
15227,"I will seek out their writings forthwith, and peruse them with deliberate care."
15228,"We subject the unlooked for and unimagined, to the mathematical formulae of the schools."
15229,"These volumes were my study day and night, and my familiarity with them increased that regret which I had felt, as a child, on learning that my father's dying injunction had forbidden my uncle to allow me to embark in a seafaring life."
15230,Why not for ever thus?
15231,"It hasn't been fed since the second of August, when Wilbur came here to his death, and at that rate. . ."
15232,"This action, so remarkable in an American theatre, attracted very general observation, and gave rise to an indefinite movement, or buzz, among the audience, which for a moment filled me with confusion, but produced no visible effect upon the countenance of Madame Lalande."
15233,"With trembling hand I conveyed the instruments out of the room, but I reflected that I ought not to leave the relics of my work to excite the horror and suspicion of the peasants; and I accordingly put them into a basket, with a great quantity of stones, and laying them up, determined to throw them into the sea that very night; and in the meantime I sat upon the beach, employed in cleaning and arranging my chemical apparatus."
15234,Now the irony is this.
15235,The door of the cathedral stood invitingly open.
15236,"I was no longer a young man, though but twenty one winters had chilled my bodily frame."
15237,"I have lived in the same house with her, at one time for five and at another for nearly two years."
15238,Seems they was some of the things alive in the stone buildin's when the island come up sudden to the surface.
15239,"From that memorable night, I dismissed forever my charnel apprehensions, and with them vanished the cataleptic disorder, of which, perhaps, they had been less the consequence than the cause."
15240,I sickened as I read.
15241,"I was shown up a broad winding staircase of mosaics, into an apartment whose unparalleled splendor burst through the opening door with an actual glare, making me blind and dizzy with luxuriousness."
15242,"Her present visit to London tended to augment her state of inquietude, by shewing in its utmost extent the ravages occasioned by pestilence."
15243,"Ligeia Ligeia in studies of a nature more than all else adapted to deaden impressions of the outward world, it is by that sweet word alone by Ligeia that I bring before mine eyes in fancy the image of her who is no more."
15244,"He admitted no visitors at all with the exception, one day, of a very stupid looking young gentleman of whom he had no reason to be afraid."
15245,"I received him at the door of my cottage and leading him solemnly into the room, I said: ""My friend, I wish to die."
15246,"""Am I for ever,"" he cried, ""to be the sport of fortune Must man, the heaven climber, be for ever the victim of the crawling reptiles of his species Were I as you, Lionel, looking forward to many years of life, to a succession of love enlightened days, to refined enjoyments and fresh springing hopes, I might yield, and breaking my General's staff, seek repose in the glades of Windsor."
15247,"Yet I did not hurry too precipitately, for there were architectural details worth viewing at every silent corner; and I could easily, I calculated, cover the necessary distance in a half hour."
15248,Gradually I came to find Herbert West himself more horrible than anything he did that was when it dawned on me that his once normal scientific zeal for prolonging life had subtly degenerated into a mere morbid and ghoulish curiosity and secret sense of charnel picturesqueness.
15249,But the alteration stopped not here I neither hoped nor desired it to stop.
15250,"This prolongation of the cusps beyond the semicircle, I thought, must have arisen from the refraction of the sun's rays by the moon's atmosphere."
15251,The customs of the world are so many conventional follies.
15252,"Manton had two malignant wounds in the chest, and some less severe cuts or gougings in the back."
15253,I had not quite crossed the street when I heard a muttering band advancing along Washington from the north.
15254,"Oh, no The only joy that he can now know will be when he composes his shattered spirit to peace and death."
15255,"The other three were what sent him unconscious for they were living entities about eight feet high, shaped precisely like the spiky images on the balustrade, and propelling themselves by a spider like wriggling of their lower set of starfish arms."
15256,"There was another circumstance, too, which interested me much."
15257,"One single gale such as now befriends us let such a tempest whirl forward a balloon for four or five days these gales often last longer and the voyager will be easily borne, in that period, from coast to coast."
15258,"The result was discoverable, he added, in that silent, yet importunate and terrible influence which for centuries had moulded the destinies of his family, and which made him what I now saw him what he was."
15259,"Accordingly abandoning it as a route, I cautiously moved the bedstead against it to hamper any attack which might be made on it later from the next room."
15260,"Henry Wheeler, trembling, turned the rescued telescope on the mountain to see what he might."
15261,"It was evident that if the balloon held its present course, it would soon arrive above the Frozen Ocean, and I had now little doubt of ultimately seeing the Pole."
15262,"""I fear you are right there,"" said the Prefect."
15263,"It is all very well to talk about the facilis descensus Averni; but in all kinds of climbing, as Catalani said of singing, it is far more easy to get up than to come down."
15264,"I concluded the most wildly enthusiastic epistle ever penned, with a frank declaration of my worldly circumstances of my affluence and with an offer of my heart and of my hand."
15265,"No none of these things accompanied our fall The balmy air of spring, breathed from nature's ambrosial home, invested the lovely earth, which wakened as a young mother about to lead forth in pride her beauteous offspring to meet their sire who had been long absent."
15266,Even I was dispatched to a distant part of the field.
15267,"What, though life and the system of social intercourse were a wilderness, a tiger haunted jungle Through the midst of its errors, in the depths of its savage recesses, there was a disentangled and flowery pathway, through which they might journey in safety and delight."
15268,"Sometimes I have thought, that, obscure and chaotic as they are, they owe their present form to me, their decipherer."
15269,"He always remained lame, for the great tendons had been severed; but I think the greatest lameness was in his soul."
15270,"In spite of my malignity, it softened and attracted me."
15271,"We shall start immediately, and be back, at all events, by sunrise."""
15272,"I was aware, however, that his very ancient family had been noted, time out of mind, for a peculiar sensibility of temperament, displaying itself, through long ages, in many works of exalted art, and manifested, of late, in repeated deeds of munificent yet unobtrusive charity, as well as in a passionate devotion to the intricacies, perhaps even more than to the orthodox and easily recognisable beauties, of musical science."
15273,"For many nights there had been a hollow drumming on the hills, and at last the ædile Tib."
15274,Its marvellous effect lay altogether in its artistic arrangement as a picture.
15275,"The way was rough and obscure, and never did they seem nearer to Oonai the city of lutes and dancing; but in the dusk as the stars came out Iranon would sing of Aira and its beauties and Romnod would listen, so that they were both happy after a fashion."
15276,That gland is the great sense organ of organs I have found out.
15277,"Raymond was only the more excited by this consideration to discover him; impelled by the interest he took in obscure talent, he therefore ordered a person skilled in such matters, to follow the Greek the next time he came, and observe the house in which he should enter."
15278,"Many times afterward I saw him under the full moon, and ever did he beckon me."
15279,Whether the events of that night were of reality or illusion I shall never ascertain.
15280,Her own feeling was as entire as at its birth.
15281,"He tottered, clutched at the curtains as I had done before, and wriggled his head wildly, like a hunted animal."
15282,I knew what he meant by that one word well enough I knew what he wished to make me understand.
15283,"Beyond the limits of the city arose, in frequent majestic groups, the palm and the cocoa, with other gigantic and weird trees of vast age, and here and there might be seen a field of rice, the thatched hut of a peasant, a tank, a stray temple, a gypsy camp, or a solitary graceful maiden taking her way, with a pitcher upon her head, to the banks of the magnificent river."
15284,"My father and Ernest yet lived, but the former sunk under the tidings that I bore."
15285,"It was dismal sitting there on rickety boxes in the pitchy darkness, but we smoked pipes and occasionally flashed our pocket lamps about."
15286,"In the mad intensity of my devotion, I forgot everything but the presence and the majestic loveliness of the vision which confronted my gaze."
15287,"Rushing then with all his force against the fatal hogshead full of October ale and Hugh Tarpaulin, he rolled it over and over in an instant."
15288,"If a false move be made by his antagonist, he raps briskly on the box with the fingers of his right hand, shakes his head roughly, and replacing the piece falsely moved, in its former situation, assumes the next move himself."
15289,"Polluted by crimes and torn by the bitterest remorse, where can I find rest but in death?"
15290,"The bent, goatish giant before him seemed like the spawn of another planet or dimension; like something only partly of mankind, and linked to black gulfs of essence and entity that stretch like titan phantasms beyond all spheres of force and matter, space and time."
15291,"We sat in his library, and he spoke of the old Greek sages, and of the power which they had acquired over the minds of men, through the force of love and wisdom only."
15292,"Of what followed, members of ""The Greatest Show on Earth"" do not like to speak."
15293,I looked at it for some minutes: it was a spade.
15294,The mask which concealed the visage was made so nearly to resemble the countenance of a stiffened corpse that the closest scrutiny must have had difficulty in detecting the cheat.
15295,"Those figures are so silent and furtive that one feels somehow confronted by forbidden things, with which it would be better to have nothing to do."
15296,"It was a faith of which other Esquimaux knew little, and which they mentioned only with shudders, saying that it had come down from horribly ancient aeons before ever the world was made."
15297,Pisando la tierra dura de continuo el hombre esta y cada passo que da es sobre su sepultura.
15298,"With the wind that now drove us on, we were bound for the whirl of the Ström, and nothing could save us ""You perceive that in crossing the Ström channel, we always went a long way up above the whirl, even in the calmest weather, and then had to wait and watch carefully for the slack but now we were driving right upon the pool itself, and in such a hurricane as this 'To be sure,' I thought, 'we shall get there just about the slack there is some little hope in that' but in the next moment I cursed myself for being so great a fool as to dream of hope at all."
15299,"must I say precisely?"""
15300,"When the Automaton hesitates in relation to its move, the exhibiter is occasionally seen to place himself very near its right side, and to lay his hand, now and then, in a careless manner upon the box."
15301,"First, he would look in on Evadne; he would not stay; but he owed her some account, some compensation for his long and unannounced absence; and then to Perdita, to the forgotten world, to the duties of society, the splendour of rank, the enjoyment of power."
15302,"His manner, timid at first, became firm his changeful face was lit up to superhuman brilliancy; his voice, various as music, was like that enchanting."
15303,What I heard in my youth about the shunned house was merely that people died there in alarmingly great numbers.
15304,"Observing that I remained without motion, one or two of the boldest leaped upon the frame work, and smelt at the surcingle."
15305,"I remember seizing my revolver and hat, but before it was over I had lost them both without firing the one or donning the other."
15306,"""For some weeks I led a miserable life in the woods, endeavouring to cure the wound which I had received."
15307,"Yet you do love me; I feel and know that you do, and thence I draw my most cherished hopes."
15308,"I have never yet been able to account, in a manner satisfactory to my own understanding, for the very peculiar countenance and demeanor with which Mr. Crab listened to me, as I unfolded to him my design."
15309,"The screaming twilight abysses flashed before him, and he felt himself helpless in the formless grasp of the iridescent bubble congeries."
15310,"I liked it there, for the doctors were broad minded, and even lent me their influence in obtaining the carefully sheltered copy of Alhazred's objectionable Necronomicon from the library of Miskatonic University."
15311,"September nd My beloved Sister, I write to you, encompassed by peril and ignorant whether I am ever doomed to see again dear England and the dearer friends that inhabit it."
15312,I reflected that many difficulties might still lie in the path of my preservation which only extreme exertion on my part would be able to surmount.
15313,"These I had tested with a fellow student; but achieving no result, had soon packed them away with other scientific odds and ends for possible future use."
15314,From each room to every other there were sure to be found three or four steps either in ascent or descent.
15315,"Upon his person was found a letter, briefly stating his love for Marie, with his design of self destruction."
15316,"God, that hand The window The window When the last days were upon me, and the ugly trifles of existence began to drive me to madness like the small drops of water that torturers let fall ceaselessly upon one spot of their victim's body, I loved the irradiate refuge of sleep."
15317,But before I could investigate there came a third impression which because of its irrationality caused me to doubt the objectivity of anything my senses might record.
15318,But it is by no means a really natural arrangement.
15319,"Her presence, her readings alone, rendered vividly luminous the many mysteries of the transcendentalism in which we were immersed."
15320,"Their creeds were heterodox and mysterious, involving hints of certain marvellous transformations leading to bodily immortality of a sort on this earth."
15321,"I concealed from this beloved child that her mother's death was voluntary, and tried every means to awaken cheerfulness in her sorrow stricken spirit."
15322,"A little reflection upon this discovery sufficed to render evident the consequences, which were that rascality must predominate in a word, that a republican government could never be any thing but a rascally one."
15323,"This man is about the medium size, and has a remarkable stoop in the shoulders."
15324,"He was ready, I think, to see proof of his increasingly strong opinion that consciousness, reason, and personality can exist independently of the brain that man has no central connective spirit, but is merely a machine of nervous matter, each section more or less complete in itself."
15325,"He stopped in his tracks then, flailing his arms wildly in the air, began to stagger backward."
15326,"He found Old Whateley in a very grave state, with a cardiac action and stertorous breathing that told of an end not far off."
15327,My nose is sufficiently good.
15328,"Now even granting what should not be granted that the movements of the Automaton Chess Player were in themselves determinate, they would be necessarily interrupted and disarranged by the indeterminate will of his antagonist."
15329,It would have been better if we could have known it was underground.
15330,"No word, no expression could body forth the kind of relation in which she stood to me my more than sister, since till death she was to be mine only."
15331,"But these fluctuations shook to its depths the soul of the sensitive youth; he no longer deemed the world subject to him, because he possessed Evadne's love; he felt in every nerve that the dire storms of the mental universe were about to attack his fragile being, which quivered at the expectation of its advent."
15332,"I had the good fortune to recollect that in the accentuation of this drama, or at least of such portion of it as is allotted to the hero, the tones of voice in which I found myself deficient were altogether unnecessary, and the deep guttural was expected to reign monotonously throughout."
15333,"Mr. Kirwin, on hearing this evidence, desired that I should be taken into the room where the body lay for interment, that it might be observed what effect the sight of it would produce upon me."
15334,"I could no longer bear the touch of her wan fingers, nor the low tone of her musical language, nor the lustre of her melancholy eyes."
15335,"But winter was coming, and with winter, hope."
15336,"But now that virtue has become to me a shadow, and that happiness and affection are turned into bitter and loathing despair, in what should I seek for sympathy?"
15337,"Not a living thing did I see, except for the scattered fishermen on the distant breakwater, and not a sound did I hear save the lapping of the harbour tides and the roar of the falls in the Manuxet."
15338,"""We have strange news here,"" I observed."
15339,I felt that I breathed an atmosphere of sorrow.
15340,"I have learnt in Greece that one man, more or less, is of small import, while human bodies remain to fill up the thinned ranks of the soldiery; and that the identity of an individual may be overlooked, so that the muster roll contain its full numbers."
15341,"As this state of wretchedness became more confirmed, and, in spite of her endeavours at concealment more apparent, I strove, though vainly, to awaken in her courage and hope."
15342,"""Even so,"" he cried, ""I knew you would speak of her."
15343,"The putting the key in the lock of the back door was a signal on hearing which the person concealed brought his body forward to an angle as acute as possible throwing it altogether, or nearly so, into the main compartment."
15344,"Not being able to arrive at a conclusion, the practitioners remanded me for farther examination."
15345,"Certain data being given, certain results necessarily and inevitably follow."
15346,"In the meantime, the force of gravitation would be constantly diminishing, in proportion to the squares of the distances, and thus, with a velocity prodigiously accelerating, I should at length arrive in those distant regions where the force of the earth's attraction would be superseded by that of the moon."
15347,"All my joy turned to sorrow when I first beheld him with that melancholy countenance enter these doors as it were the day after my lady's funeral He seemed to recover himself a little after he had bidden me write to you but still it is a woful thing to see him so unhappy."""
15348,A servant is sent to make inquiry about the delay.
15349,"I pursued him, and for many months this has been my task."
15350,"It is you they will get, as they got the servants."
15351,"There, where morbidity lurked most thickly, I searched and poked during long afternoons when the sunlight filtered in through the cobwebbed above ground windows, and a sense of security glowed from the unlocked door which placed me only a few feet from the placid sidewalk outside."
15352,"Evadne's constancy, fortitude, even her ill fated and ill regulated love, were matter of admiration and pity; especially when, from the detail of the events of the nineteenth of October, it was apparent that she preferred suffering and death to any in her eyes degrading application for the pity and assistance of her lover."
15353,They would have it that Coleridge wrote the paper but not so.
15354,Accordingly we find that Maelzel closes the back door.
15355,"I bent to them my ear and distinguished, again, the concluding words of the passage in Glanvill ""Man doth not yield him to the angels, nor unto death utterly, save only through the weakness of his feeble will."""
15356,"Love had doubled all her excellencies, and placed a diadem on her genius."
15357,"And then had come the scourge, grinning and lethal, from the nightmare caverns of Tartarus."
15358,"When passing over an expanse of water, it becomes necessary to employ small kegs of copper or wood, filled with liquid ballast of a lighter nature than water."
15359,Is a native of Spain.
15360,"Found the ascending force greater than we had expected; and as we arose higher and so got clear of the cliffs, and more in the sun's rays, our ascent became very rapid."
15361,"The chief in point of splendor and extent was the ""Château Metzengerstein."""
15362,"A poet, having very unusual pecuniary resources, might, while retaining the necessary idea of art or culture, or, as our author expresses it, of interest, so imbue his designs at once with extent and novelty of beauty, as to convey the sentiment of spiritual interference."
15363,It surprised me that what before was desert and gloomy should now bloom with the most beautiful flowers and verdure.
15364,"At length the negro asked, ""Is de lef eye of de skull pon de same side as de lef hand of de skull, too? cause de skull aint got not a bit ob a hand at all nebber mind I got de lef eye now here de lef eye what mus do wid it?"""
15365,"He who has never swooned, is not he who finds strange palaces and wildly familiar faces in coals that glow; is not he who beholds floating in mid air the sad visions that the many may not view; is not he who ponders over the perfume of some novel flower is not he whose brain grows bewildered with the meaning of some musical cadence which has never before arrested his attention."
15366,"I resolved, therefore, that if my immediate union with my cousin would conduce either to hers or my father's happiness, my adversary's designs against my life should not retard it a single hour."
15367,"Arm holes had been cut in the sides, for the sake not more of elegance than of convenience; but the dress, nevertheless, prevented its proprietor from sitting as erect as his associates; and as he lay reclining against his tressel, at an angle of forty five degrees, a pair of huge goggle eyes rolled up their awful whites towards the ceiling in absolute amazement at their own enormity."
15368,Tonight I go as a Nemesis bearing just and blazingly cataclysmic vengeance.
15369,It should be a matter of general knowledge that Cf. is responsible for this work.
15370,"The genius of the stanzas to the ""Oil of Bob"" first breathed into me, I say, the divine afflatus."
15371,The apparition was soon explained.
15372,"The month of May had already commenced, and I expected the letter daily which was to fix the date of my departure, when Henry proposed a pedestrian tour in the environs of Ingolstadt, that I might bid a personal farewell to the country I had so long inhabited."
15373,"The cycles in which the stars move are those best adapted for the evolution, without collision, of the greatest possible number of bodies."
15374,Sorrow fled before her; and her smile seemed to possess an influence like light to irradiate all mental darkness.
15375,"That was the first time he had ever been able to revive the quality of rational thought in a corpse; and his success, obtained at such a loathsome cost, had completely hardened him."
15376,"The children and the womenfolk whimpered, kept from screaming by some obscure, vestigial instinct of defence which told them their lives depended on silence."
15377,"""I wish you to bear especially in mind that I have spoken of a very unusual degree of activity as requisite to success in so hazardous and so difficult a feat."
15378,"Mr. Ricci and Mr. Silva were to interview the poor old gentleman, whilst Mr. Czanek waited for them and their presumable metallic burden with a covered motor car in Ship Street, by the gate in the tall rear wall of their host's grounds."
15379,"The shingles were painted a dull gray; and the happiness with which this neutral tint melted into the vivid green of the tulip tree leaves that partially overshadowed the cottage, can readily be conceived by an artist."
15380,"Upon neither of these points could I be satisfied; merely ascertaining, in regard to him, that a sudden accident in his family had caused his removal from Dr. Bransby's academy on the afternoon of the day in which I myself had eloped."
15381,"It was, especially, upon retiring to bed late in the night of the seventh or eighth day after the placing of the lady Madeline within the donjon, that I experienced the full power of such feelings."
15382,"The knot by which the strings of the bonnet were fastened, was not a lady's, but a slip or sailor's knot."
15383,"There was no sound within save a nameless sort of slow, thick dripping."
15384,"I would sometimes rise very quietly in the night, stealing out to walk in those churchyards and places of burial from which I had been kept by my parents."
15385,What I have become since this last moment I know not; perhaps I am changed in mien as the fallen archangel.
15386,"Also, I must not dwell on what that factory inspector had told the Newburyport ticket agent about the Gilman House and the voices of its nocturnal tenants not on that, nor on the face beneath the tiara in the black church doorway; the face for whose horror my conscious mind could not account."
15387,"It moved slowly, but it enlightened my path, and I again went out in search of berries."
15388,Yet this was very unlike my early life although as then I was confined to Nature and books.
15389,With opinions such as these was my young friend fully imbued; and thus is it especially worthy of observation that the uninterrupted enjoyment which distinguished his life was in great part the result of preconcert.
15390,We took our passage on board a vessel bound for Havre de Grace and sailed with a fair wind from the Irish shores.
15391,"A sordid, undefinable stench settled over the place, and the ancient spirit slept."
15392,"Then came a halt in the gasping, and the dog raised its head in a long, lugubrious howl."
15393,It was the opinion of both physicians that M. Valdemar would die about midnight on the morrow Sunday.
15394,"""You cherish dreary thoughts, my dear Perdita,"" I said, ""nor do I wonder that for a time your better reason should be influenced by passionate grief and a disturbed imagination."
15395,"Thus you may console me by reducing me to nothing but your words I cannot bear; soon they will make me mad, quite mad, and then I shall utter strange words, and you will believe them, and we shall be both lost for ever."
15396,"His abdication of the Protectorate had caused an unexampled sensation; and, when his magnificent and manly system was contrasted with the narrow views of succeeding politicians, the period of his elevation was referred to with sorrow."
15397,"I record no crimes; my faults may easily be pardoned; for they proceeded not from evil motive but from want of judgement; and I believe few would say that they could, by a different conduct and superior wisdom, have avoided the misfortunes to which I am the victim."
15398,"What slave will not, if he may, escape from his chains?"
15399,"I felt as if, from the order of the systematic world, I had plunged into chaos, obscure, contrary, unintelligible."
15400,"""Save me"" she exclaimed, and would have sunk to the ground had I not supported her."
15401,"Let us carefully compare with each other the various communications sent to the evening paper, in which the object was to inculpate a gang."
15402,"His companionship with the deceased, a gay, but not an abject young girl, designates him as above the grade of the common sailor."
15403,Even in my own heart I could give no expression to my sensations they weighed on me with a mountain's weight and their excess destroyed my agony beneath them.
15404,"Shalmanezer, as we have it in holy writings, lay three years before Samaria; yet it fell."
15405,"Rushing to the building, it perceived the lightning rod, clambered up with inconceivable agility, grasped the shutter, which was thrown fully back against the wall, and, by its means, swung itself directly upon the headboard of the bed."
15406,"I did not undress, but decided to read till I was sleepy and then lie down with only my coat, collar, and shoes off."
15407,"One man with Oriental eyes has said that all time and space are relative, and men have laughed."
15408,The police are entirely at fault an unusual occurrence in affairs of this nature.
15409,Gate o' hell sheer drop daown to a bottom no saoundin' line kin tech.
15410,"All cold, and stiff, and dead Alas I am quite callous: the night I was out in was fearful and the cold rain that fell about my heart has acted like the waters of the cavern of Antiparos and has changed it to stone."
15411,"It was echoed from Saleve, the Juras, and the Alps of Savoy; vivid flashes of lightning dazzled my eyes, illuminating the lake, making it appear like a vast sheet of fire; then for an instant every thing seemed of a pitchy darkness, until the eye recovered itself from the preceding flash."
15412,"what do you mean?"" ""Why, massa, I mean de bug dare now."""
15413,"He was always the saddest of the group, and even to my unpractised senses, he appeared to have suffered more deeply than his friends."
15414,It was the work of the rushing gust but then without those doors there did stand the lofty and enshrouded figure of the lady Madeline of Usher.
15415,"She appeared affected by different feelings; wiping a few tears from her lovely eyes, she held out her hand to Felix, who kissed it rapturously and called her, as well as I could distinguish, his sweet Arabian."
15416,I had expected more resolution at his hands.
15417,"It was not strange therefore, that when he heard of the existence of the offspring of this celebrated person, he should have formed the plan of bestowing on them all the advantages his rank made him rich to afford."
15418,"But, as the loss of his ears proved the means of elevating to the throne of Cyrus, the Magian or Mige Gush of Persia, and as the cutting off his nose gave Zopyrus possession of Babylon, so the loss of a few ounces of my countenance proved the salvation of my body."
15419,"On examination, we found that all the leaves, bark, and other substances, were traced with written characters."
15420,"Although in his appearance there is, to a casual observer, nothing which might bespeak him more or less than man still a feeling of irrepressible reverence and awe mingled with the sensation of wonder with which I regarded him."
15421,"Well, Eliot, that was the end of the night's adventure."
15422,"Made sign talk as soon as they got over bein' skeert, an' pieced up a bargain afore long."
15423,"Our misfortune is doubly hard to us; we have not only lost that lovely darling boy, but this poor girl, whom I sincerely love, is to be torn away by even a worse fate."
15424,"And every night, about midnight, I turned the latch of his door and opened it oh so gently And then, when I had made an opening sufficient for my head, I put in a dark lantern, all closed, closed, that no light shone out, and then I thrust in my head."
15425,"It had not seen me, but was simply obeying a general plan of cutting off my escape."
15426,"Often I waited beside the bed of death till midnight, and through the obscurity of rainy, cloudy nights rode many miles, sustained by one circumstance only, the safety and sheltered repose of those I loved."
15427,"You must have had occasion to observe how absolutely indispensable, of late years, to the thorough blackguard, has become the pocket handkerchief."""
15428,"A remembrance of the discourses of my parents, and the communications which my mother endeavoured to impress upon me concerning my father's friends, in slight hope that I might one day derive benefit from the knowledge, floated like an indistinct dream through my brain."
15429,"This circumstance, however, only endeared it to my wife, who, as I have already said, possessed, in a high degree, that humanity of feeling which had once been my distinguishing trait, and the source of many of my simplest and purest pleasures."
15430,"During the busy day, my mind had yielded itself a willing slave to the state of things presented to it by its fellow beings; historical association, hatred of the foe, and military enthusiasm had held dominion over me."
15431,"Yes: the king is coming See the people are aghast with admiration, and lift up their eyes to the heavens in reverence."
15432,"But in the western or black chamber the effect of the fire light that streamed upon the dark hangings through the blood tinted panes, was ghastly in the extreme, and produced so wild a look upon the countenances of those who entered, that there were few of the company bold enough to set foot within its precincts at all."
15433,"In the most enchanting of natural landscapes, there will always be found a defect or an excess many excesses and defects."
15434,"A fearful idea now suddenly drove the blood in torrents upon my heart, and for a brief period, I once more relapsed into insensibility."
15435,"You perceive, however, that he is neither a lamb, nor a goat, nor a satyr, neither has he much resemblance to the Pan of the Arcadians."
15436,"A small spring of water presented itself to my view, and here, stooping, I bathed my hands and my head and neck."
15437,"""You have got up all your arguments in excellent order,"" I replied; ""and, if Adrian consent, they are unanswerable."
15438,"For an instant I felt absolute despair, since my trapping in a chamber with no window egress seemed complete."
15439,Flashes of lightning were visible through the bunk house window.
15440,"Idris stood beside me, her dear hand locked in mine."
15441,"I saw nothing in it of an extraordinary character, but its effect upon Bedloe was prodigious."
15442,"He gave not only a brief denial to his mother's schemes, but published his intention of using his influence to diminish the power of the aristocracy, to effect a greater equalization of wealth and privilege, and to introduce a perfect system of republican government into England."
15443,"Once Idris named me casually a frown, a convulsive gesture of anger, shook her mother, and, with voice trembling with hate, she said ""I am of little worth in this world; the young are impatient to push the old off the scene; but, Idris, if you do not wish to see your mother expire at your feet, never again name that person to me; all else I can bear; and now I am resigned to the destruction of my cherished hopes: but it is too much to require that I should love the instrument that providence gifted with murderous properties for my destruction."""
15444,"Her timidity was not artificial, but arose from that fear of not being properly appreciated, that slight estimation of the neglect of the world, which also characterized Raymond."
15445,I asked her where he should be buried.
15446,"""There is much truth in what you say,"" said I, ""and yet no man ever acts upon this theory."
15447,Nothing should tempt me to part with that scarabæus.
15448,"And above the nighted screaming of men and horses that dæmonic drumming rose to louder pitch, whilst an ice cold wind of shocking sentience and deliberateness swept down from those forbidden heights and coiled about each man separately, till all the cohort was struggling and screaming in the dark, as if acting out the fate of Laocoön and his sons."
15449,But at length reflection came to my aid.
15450,"My glance fell from the painting to the figure of my friend, and the vigorous words of Chapman's Bussy D'Ambois, quivered instinctively upon my lips: ""He is up There like a Roman statue He will stand Till Death hath made him marble"" ""Come,"" he said at length, turning towards a table of richly enamelled and massive silver, upon which were a few goblets fantastically stained, together with two large Etruscan vases, fashioned in the same extraordinary model as that in the foreground of the portrait, and filled with what I supposed to be Johannisberger."
15451,"Old Waldron, who had curtailed his activities before, would have made him take a rest an impossible thing now that he was so close to great results in his equations."
15452,"""Every minute,"" continued M. Krempe with warmth, ""every instant that you have wasted on those books is utterly and entirely lost."
15453,But are not the dreams of poets and the tales of travellers notoriously false?
15454,"Now, the mean or average interval between the centres of the two planets is . of the earth's equatorial radii, or only about , miles."
15455,It has a certain general relation to the various styles of building.
15456,"Watson, Dr. Percival, Spallanzani, and especially the Bishop of Landaff."
15457,"His countenance was rough but intelligent his ample brow and quick grey eyes seemed to look out, over his own plans, and the opposition of his enemies."
15458,"That, I s'pose, was because gov'munt draft men was in taown arter 'sixty three."
15459,"The sailor had recovered his presence of mind, in a great measure, while Dupin uttered these words; but his original boldness of bearing was all gone."
15460,"I threw myself at his feet, and took his hand, ""Yes, speak, and we shall be happy; there will no longer be doubt, no dreadful uncertainty; trust me, my affection will soothe your sorrow; speak that word and all danger will be past, and we shall love each other as before, and for ever."""
15461,This alone would have sufficed to produce death.
15462,"While I was thus wrapped in admiration of this lovely vision, a sudden disturbance among the audience caused her to turn her head partially toward me, so that I beheld the entire profile of the face."
15463,"The steel rod connecting the spring with the propeller was suddenly jerked out of place, at the car end, by a swaying of the car through some movement of one of the two seamen we had taken up, and in an instant hung dangling out of reach, from the pivot of the axis of the screw."
15464,"When I mingled with other families I distinctly discerned how peculiarly fortunate my lot was, and gratitude assisted the development of filial love."
15465,Is it possible that even my latest fear is sheer delusion?
15466,You will not dispute with me?
15467,"""There needs no persuasion,"" said the blushing Perdita, ""except your own dear promises, and my ready heart, which whispers to me that they are true."""
15468,You did look up; and I was now assured that I had correctly followed your steps.
15469,"Two titan swaths of destruction stretched from the glen to the Frye farmyard, monstrous prints covered the bare patches of ground, and one side of the old red barn had completely caved in."
15470,"I remained, while the storm lasted, watching its progress with curiosity and delight."
15471,"We were in time, however, to obtain the front seats which had been reserved for us, and into which, with some little difficulty, we elbowed our way."
15472,"In the end he give him a funny kind o' thingumajig made aout o' lead or something, that he said ud bring up the fish things from any place in the water whar they might be a nest of 'em."
15473,"He awaked on the morning of the nd with a pain in his left wrist, and saw that his cuff was brown with dried blood."
15474,"From the manner in which Slater alluded to their dealings, I judged that he and the luminous thing had met on equal terms; that in his dream existence the man was himself a luminous thing of the same race as his enemy."
15475,Thus far I have faithfully said.
15476,"Upon investigation it was seen that a new abyss yawned indefinitely below the seat of the blast; an abyss so monstrous that no handy line might fathom it, nor any lamp illuminate it."
15477,"In the cranium of this hideous thing lay quantity of ignited charcoal, which threw a fitful but vivid light over the entire scene; while coffins, and other wares appertaining to the shop of an undertaker, were piled high up around the room, and against the windows, preventing any ray from escaping into the street."
15478,"This time he resolved to reply in kind, and his own hands reached out for the creature's throat."
15479,"When a madman appears thoroughly sane, indeed, it is high time to put him in a straitjacket."""
15480,"""But this ascendancy,"" I interposed, ""would depend upon the robber's knowledge of the loser's knowledge of the robber."
15481,"This lady died, but her lessons were indelibly impressed on the mind of Safie, who sickened at the prospect of again returning to Asia and being immured within the walls of a harem, allowed only to occupy herself with infantile amusements, ill suited to the temper of her soul, now accustomed to grand ideas and a noble emulation for virtue."
15482,"His mother, apparently inattentive, at once understood what was meant, and seeing the hold we had upon her, yielded the point to us."
15483,"""By no means"" says the servant; and ""By no means"" says the lady's sister and the lady's sister in law, who are summoned forthwith."
15484,"M. Maelzel, having rolled the machine back into its original position, now informs the company that the Automaton will play a game of chess with any one disposed to encounter him."
15485,Of foam there was little except in the immediate vicinity of the rocks.
15486,"The house was readily found; for there were still many persons gazing up at the closed shutters, with an objectless curiosity, from the opposite side of the way."
15487,"Other traditions tell of foul odours near the hill crowning circles of stone pillars, and of rushing airy presences to be heard faintly at certain hours from stated points at the bottom of the great ravines; while still others try to explain the Devil's Hop Yard a bleak, blasted hillside where no tree, shrub, or grass blade will grow."
15488,"They were eyeing, from behind a huge flagon of unpaid for ""humming stuff,"" the portentous words, ""No Chalk,"" which to their indignation and astonishment were scored over the doorway by means of that very mineral whose presence they purported to deny."
15489,"The door to the west wing was in its gable, and quite simple a single window looked out to the south."
15490,"""Alberto Montani, confectioner, deposes that he was among the first to ascend the stairs."
15491,"On a verdant slope of Mount Maenalus, in Arcadia, there stands an olive grove about the ruins of a villa."
15492,"He pointed out the errors, and the alterations that he wished to be made; he offered the Greek a pencil that he might correct the sketch on the spot; this was refused by his visitor, who said that he perfectly understood, and would work at it at home."
15493,"At the bottom of that valley a river once had flowed; for as I examined the scene more closely I beheld the remains of stone and marble bridges and sea walls, and terraces and embankments once verdant and beautiful."
15494,"First, I must thank you, Lionel, for having remained here at my request."
15495,"His wife assured us, that he had not observed any difference, except in the absence of the children from his study, and to her infinite surprise he complained of this unaccustomed quiet."
15496,Of the first of these opinions we shall say nothing at present more than we have already said.
15497,"It is really a very fine amusement to ascend the rope ladder leading to the summit of the balloon bag, and thence survey the surrounding world."
15498,"Let us go the world is our country now, and we will choose for our residence its most fertile spot."
15499,"Was, indeed, Fate preserving my reason only to draw me irresistibly to an end more horrible and unthinkable than any man has dreamed of?"
15500,"But in truth, neither the lonely meditations of the hermit, nor the tumultuous raptures of the reveller, are capable of satisfying man's heart."
15501,"She was a singular being, and, like me, inherited much of the peculiar disposition of our father."
15502,"In an absolute phrenzy of wrath, I turned at once upon him who had thus interrupted me, and seized him violently by the collar."
15503,"It was rather ironic, for he was the officer who had helped West to his commission, and who was now to have been our associate."
15504,"Still, however, he came not."
15505,"A visiter at his office, a few days prior to the girl's disappearance, and during the absence of its occupant, had observed a rose in the key hole of the door, and the name ""Marie"" inscribed upon a slate which hung near at hand."
15506,But it is unworthy of me to argue and complain.
15507,What ensued can best be gathered from the tales of servants and from things and papers later examined.
15508,"All he could do was moan half inaudibly, ""Oh, oh, great Gawd . . ."
15509,Tragedies deep and dire were the chief favourites.
15510,"Raymond expressed himself delighted to see him, declaring that he should make one in the festivity of the night."
15511,"To be sure, whenever we meet a balloon we have a chance of perceiving our rate, and then, I admit, things do not appear so very bad."
15512,"There were insane shouts and harrowing screams, soul chilling chants and dancing devil flames; and, the frightened messenger added, the people could stand it no more."
15513,"A restlessness, a fear of what was about to betide, a doubt as to Raymond's purposes, urged me to return without delay to his quarters."
15514,"It was this that led me here: I thought that if I could again awaken in my heart the grief I had felt at the loss of your mother, and the many associations with her memory which had been laid to sleep for seventeen years, that all love for her child would become extinct."
15515,"I had seen it from the road's crest when I looked at Kingsport in the new dusk, and it had made me shiver because Aldebaran had seemed to balance itself a moment on the ghostly spire."
15516,You are going to make enquiries concerning the Earl of Windsor.
15517,"Elwood was in, thank heaven, and appeared to be stirring about."
15518,I leaned to the left.
15519,"I now observed that I had with me an electric lantern and two spades, whilst my companion was supplied with a similar lantern and a portable telephone outfit."
15520,"I have described my protracted digging as idiotic, and such it indeed was in object and method."
15521,Man could not both know and succumb.
15522,"Pray let us try again."""
15523,Nor was I indeed ignorant of the flowers and the vine but the hemlock and the cypress overshadowed me night and day.
15524,"Chapter ""I now hasten to the more moving part of my story."
15525,"The right arm of the man within is brought across his breast, and his right fingers act, without any constraint, upon the machinery in the shoulder of the figure."
15526,It was midnight; and you still sat by my side.
15527,"Do not then continue to fix your eyes on the earth; raise them on me for I can read your soul in them: speak to me to me sic, and pardon my presumption."
15528,Alas To me the idea of an immediate union with my Elizabeth was one of horror and dismay.
15529,"Never should he behold her fallen, as she deemed, from her pride of beauty, the poverty stricken inhabitant of a garret, with a name which had become a reproach, and a weight of guilt on her soul."
15530,"He was far too long sighted in his view of humanity to heed the casualties of the day, and lived in the midst of contagion unconscious of its existence."
15531,"The truth is, I soon found that Mrs. W. was far oftener laughed at than with."
15532,"My wife had called my attention, more than once, to the character of the mark of white hair, of which I have spoken, and which constituted the sole visible difference between the strange beast and the one I had destroyed."
15533,Raymond then lamented the cureless evil of his situation with Perdita.
15534,"Presently he shook his head, looking as pale as death, and held up one of his fingers, as if to say 'listen ' ""At first I could not make out what he meant but soon a hideous thought flashed upon me."
15535,"In such a mind, I repeat, what a host of recollections are stirred up by a trifle The dogs danced I I could not They frisked I wept."
15536,"""Are you mad, my friend?"" said he. ""Or whither does your senseless curiosity lead you?"
15537,He had promised to spend some hours with me one afternoon but a violent and continual rain prevented him.
15538,"Scarcely had I crossed the sill when there descended upon the whole company a sudden and unheralded fear of hideous intensity, distorting every face and evoking the most horrible screams from nearly every throat."
15539,"I will therefore guess even;' he guesses even, and wins."
15540,"In about ten minutes after starting, the barometer indicated an altitude of , feet."
15541,"A tear seemed to dim her eye when she saw us, but she quickly recovered herself, and a look of sorrowful affection seemed to attest her utter guiltlessness."
15542,"So on the night of July , , Herbert West and I stood in the cellar laboratory and gazed at a white, silent figure beneath the dazzling arc light."
15543,In the daemon flash of a monstrous fireball the sleeper started up suddenly while the glare from beyond the window threw his shadow vividly upon the chimney above the fireplace from which my eyes had never strayed.
15544,Something had evidently drawn a crowd to this place.
15545,Who ordered your attack?
15546,"In days of happiness I have often repeated to myself, with a grateful heart and exulting spirit, all that Raymond sacrificed for me."
15547,I lay outstretched where I had fallen from the balloon.
15548,"""You have guessed right; I have lately been so deeply engaged in one occupation that I have not allowed myself sufficient rest, as you see; but I hope, I sincerely hope, that all these employments are now at an end and that I am at length free."""
15549,"The upper lip, at the same time, writhed itself away from the teeth, which it had previously covered completely; while the lower jaw fell with an audible jerk, leaving the mouth widely extended, and disclosing in full view the swollen and blackened tongue."
15550,"I knew what he wanted to see if this highly organised body could exhibit, without its head, any of the signs of mental life which had distinguished Sir Eric Moreland Clapham Lee."
15551,You may believe that I did not enter on my present line of conduct without reluctance and pain.
15552,"""Here, then, I retreated and lay down happy to have found a shelter, however miserable, from the inclemency of the season, and still more from the barbarity of man."
15553,"Presently they began to gather renewed force and coherence as they grew in stark, utter, ultimate frenzy."
15554,"Elizabeth saw even this last resource, her excellent dispositions and irreproachable conduct, about to fail the accused, when, although violently agitated, she desired permission to address the court."
15555,"Come, give me your hand, one look of joyous sympathy and we will go together and seek them; a lulling journey; where our arrival will bring bliss and our waking be that of angels."
15556,"One experiment succeeded another, and the customary effects supervened, with nothing to characterize them in any respect, except, upon one or two occasions, a more than ordinary degree of life likeness in the convulsive action."
15557,"The two sounds most frequently repeated are those rendered by the letters ""Cthulhu"" and ""R'lyeh""."
15558,Things are hunting me now the things that devour and dissolve but I know how to elude them.
15559,"Was again very much alarmed by a repetition of the loud, crackling noise which terrified me on the tenth."
15560,For example: very early in the morning I had to make up my packet of sham letters.
15561,Subsequent impressions will never leave the mind of young Trever.
15562,"What appeared to us more astonishing, was that these writings were expressed in various languages: some unknown to my companion, ancient Chaldee, and Egyptian hieroglyphics, old as the Pyramids."
15563,I found Adrian's anti chamber crowded it was his hour for giving audience.
15564,"Towards the end of October it dwindled away, and was in some degree replaced by a typhus, of hardly less virulence."
15565,It grew fast and big from the same reason that Wilbur grew fast and big but it beat him because it had a greater share of the outsideness in it.
15566,He was remarkable in the entire and continuous profusion of good gifts ever lavished upon him by fortune.
15567,"I had left no shadow of a clew by which it would be possible to convict, or even to suspect me of the crime."
15568,The shadows of things assumed strange and ghastly shapes.
15569,"The rich although faded tapestry hangings which swung gloomily upon the walls, represented the shadowy and majestic forms of a thousand illustrious ancestors."
15570,"At first it was the great object of my ambition to rival the merits of my father, and render myself worthy of the friendship of Adrian."
15571,"That is, never no full blooded one."
15572,"It wanted five minutes of noon, on the day before yesterday, when there appeared a very odd looking object on the summit of the ridge of the eastward."
15573,After much hesitation.
15574,"He had refused a stimulant, and had suddenly dropped dead only a moment later."
15575,"It was of a jetty black; which was also the color, or more properly the no color of his unimaginable whiskers."
15576,"My ancestors had been for many years counsellors and syndics, and my father had filled several public situations with honour and reputation."
15577,And I beg of you to let that thing on the table the thing that looks like a match box alone.
15578,"He couldn't stand what he had to do he had to get me in a strange, dark place when he minded my letter and nursed me back."
15579,"I told them exceedingly few deaths had yet been occasioned by pestilence, and gave them hopes, as we were the last visited, so the calamity might have lost its most venomous power before it had reached us."
15580,"The shunned house, it seems, was first inhabited by William Harris and his wife Rhoby Dexter, with their children, Elkanah, born in , Abigail, born in , William, Jr., born in , and Ruth, born in ."
15581,"But these garters are found to be tightened, by the setting back of a clasp, in just such a manner as her own had been tightened by Marie, shortly previous to her leaving home."
15582,For this I had deprived myself of rest and health.
15583,"Several days elapsed, and at last an answer came, dated from Cologne."
15584,"I fairly shouted with terror, and made off, at a tangent, into the farthest extremity of the room."
15585,"The sight of this form, and the expression on its face, broke the spell."
15586,"About an hour ago, I made bold to thrust myself among a group of the crew."
15587,"There was a pandemonium of questioning, and only Henry Wheeler thought to rescue the fallen telescope and wipe it clean of mud."
15588,"""Mos feerd for to ventur pon dis limb berry far tis dead limb putty much all de way."" ""Did you say it was a dead limb, Jupiter?"" cried Legrand in a quavering voice."
15589,"The cold is excessive, and many of my unfortunate comrades have already found a grave amidst this scene of desolation."
15590,"It is your duty as a magistrate, and I believe and hope that your feelings as a man will not revolt from the execution of those functions on this occasion."""
15591,"For several hours I sat thinking or brooding in the boat, which lay upon its side and afforded a slight shade as the sun moved across the heavens."
15592,"It was of this world, and yet not of it a shadowy geometrical confusion in which could be seen elements of familiar things in most unfamiliar and perturbing combinations."
15593,At a.m. the next day I commenced digging.
15594,"What with this an' that, he didn't git to sleep at all till sunup, an' no sooner was he up this mornin', but he's got to go over to Whateley's an' see what's the matter."
15595,"He foresaw that he should leave this cheerful earth, the lightsome sky, and thy love, Perdita; yet he neither hesitated or turned back, going right onward to his mark of fame."
15596,"She thought her the model of all excellence and endeavoured to imitate her phraseology and manners, so that even now she often reminds me of her."
15597,"""It was morning when I awoke, and my first care was to visit the fire."
15598,"The phrases ""I am out of breath,"" ""I have lost my breath,"" etc., are often enough repeated in common conversation; but it had never occurred to me that the terrible accident of which I speak could bona fide and actually happen Imagine that is if you have a fanciful turn imagine, I say, my wonder my consternation my despair There is a good genius, however, which has never entirely deserted me."
15599,"It's a very simple thing, indeed."
15600,"We approached with all the speed six rowers could give; the orderly and picturesque dress of the soldiers on the beach, the sounds of exulting music, the stirring breeze and waving flags, the unchecked exclamations of the eager crowd, whose dark looks and foreign garb were purely eastern; the sight of temple crowned rock, the white marble of the buildings glittering in the sun, and standing in bright relief against the dark ridge of lofty mountains beyond; the near roar of the sea, the splash of oars, and dash of spray, all steeped my soul in a delirium, unfelt, unimagined in the common course of common life."
15601,"But always I shall guard against the mocking and insatiate Hypnos, lord of sleep, against the night sky, and against the mad ambitions of knowledge and philosophy."
15602,"Then he began once more the writing of books, which he had left off when dreams first failed him."
15603,"All that now remained was to fasten up the mouth of the enclosure; and this was readily accomplished by gathering the folds of the material together, and twisting them up very tightly on the inside by means of a kind of stationary tourniquet."
15604,"With it shall go this record of mine this test of my own sanity, wherein is pieced together that which I hope may never be pieced together again."
15605,"The moon itself was directly overhead, and consequently hidden from my view."
15606,Who deserved the hand of this self exalted king more than she whose glance belonged to a queen of nations?
15607,"Reluctant even to be left alone again, each one of the cowed squatters refused point blank to advance another inch toward the scene of unholy worship, so Inspector Legrasse and his nineteen colleagues plunged on unguided into black arcades of horror that none of them had ever trod before."
15608,"Many are chosen, as you see, with little deference to the opinions of Virtu."
15609,"In the opinion of M. Dumas, Mademoiselle L'Espanaye had been throttled to death by some person or persons unknown."
15610,"A slight headache, accompanied with a sensation of fulness or distention about the wrists, the ankles, and the throat, was nearly all of which I had now to complain."
15611,"But a bitter thought swiftly shadowed her joy; she bent her eyes on the ground, endeavouring to master the passion of tears that threatened to overwhelm her."
15612,It was at nine o'clock in the morning.
15613,"I cannot guess how many days have passed since then, but I have endured misery which nothing but the eternal sentiment of a just retribution burning within my heart could have enabled me to support."
15614,"Do you observe how mere an accident it was that these events should have occurred upon the sole day of all the year in which it has been, or may be, sufficiently cool for fire, and that without the fire, or without the intervention of the dog at the precise moment in which he appeared, I should never have become aware of the death's head, and so never the possessor of the treasure?"""
15615,"My coming to New York had been a mistake; for whereas I had looked for poignant wonder and inspiration in the teeming labyrinths of ancient streets that twist endlessly from forgotten courts and squares and waterfronts to courts and squares and waterfronts equally forgotten, and in the Cyclopean modern towers and pinnacles that rise blackly Babylonian under waning moons, I had found instead only a sense of horror and oppression which threatened to master, paralyse, and annihilate me."
15616,"There, at some obscure wharf, he would have leaped on land."
15617,"""A death's head"" echoed Legrand ""Oh yes well, it has something of that appearance upon paper, no doubt."
15618,Let us get into a place of safety as soon as possible.
15619,"I was lying with my back to the east window overlooking the bog, where the waning moon would rise, and therefore expected to see light cast on the opposite wall before me; but I had not looked for such a sight as now appeared."
15620,I walked the cellar from end to end.
15621,I observed now that even the lightest vapors never rose to more than ten miles above the level of the sea.
15622,"He at no time fully described this object, but occasional frantic words, as repeated by Dr. Tobey, convinced the professor that it must be identical with the nameless monstrosity he had sought to depict in his dream sculpture."
15623,"From a loop hole near the summit of the kiosk, I perceived a vast crowd, in furious agitation, surrounding and assaulting a gay palace that overhung the river."
15624,What this design was it is not difficult to conceive.
15625,I took vigorous exercise.
15626,"""That's why I wouldn't go at night if I was you."
15627,"Legal evidence was lacking, but the story spread rapidly round the countryside; and from that time the Martenses were ostracised by the world."
15628,Yet the sound increased and what could I do?
15629,"They planted the cannon on the tumuli, sole elevations in this level country, and formed themselves into column and hollow square; while the pioneers threw up small mounds for their protection."
15630,"One day, while I was gradually recovering, I was seated in a chair, my eyes half open and my cheeks livid like those in death."
15631,"It would not let me sleep, and in impatience I sprang up and paced the floor."
15632,"It would have been wiser, it would have been safer, to classify if classify we must upon the basis of what man usually or occasionally did, and was always occasionally doing, rather than upon the basis of what we took it for granted the Deity intended him to do."
15633,"That night I encamped, and on the following day still travelled toward the hummock, though that object seemed scarcely nearer than when I had first espied it."
15634,"They had separate apartments no doubt in contemplation of a more permanent divorce; and here, after all I thought was the mystery of the extra state room."
15635,She framed her enquiries with Greek subtlety; she formed her conclusions with the decision and firmness peculiar to her disposition.
15636,"From within the city neither shout nor cry, nor aught except the casual howling of a dog, broke the noon day stillness."
15637,"Yes tears are gathering in those eyes and see the entire woman thrills throughout the soul, and the statue has started into life The pallor of the marble countenance, the swelling of the marble bosom, the very purity of the marble feet, we behold suddenly flushed over with a tide of ungovernable crimson; and a slight shudder quivers about her delicate frame, as a gentle air at Napoli about the rich silver lilies in the grass."
15638,"""Amontillado"" ""And I must satisfy them."""
15639,"I would, of course, soon have to shift from Washington to some other southward street; for that party from the hotel would doubtless be after me."
15640,"By degrees, after the morning's dawn, sleep came."
15641,"I put my hand before my eyes, and cried out in agony, ""Oh Take him away I cannot see him; for God's sake, do not let him enter"" Mr. Kirwin regarded me with a troubled countenance."
15642,"He pointed to the tillers of the earth the only people who, as a class, are proverbially more happy than others and then he instanced the high ecstasies of the fox hunter."
15643,"Having made up my mind to hope no more, I got rid of a great deal of that terror which unmanned me at first."
15644,"We also measured the thickness of every book cover, with the most accurate admeasurement, and applied to each the most jealous scrutiny of the microscope."
15645,"It means that a great hero, in the heat of combat, not perceiving that he had been fairly killed, continued to fight valiantly, dead as he was."
15646,"But while my lids remained thus shut, I ran over in my mind my reason for so shutting them."
15647,"The steep street of my approach was nowhere visible, and the little I did see succumbed rapidly to a mist that rolled in from the river despite the glaring moonlight."
15648,"""Exactly so,"" replied Raymond, ""another link of the breakless chain."
15649,"In a short period it was certain, however, that a relapse had taken place; the color disappeared from both eyelid and cheek, leaving a wanness even more than that of marble; the lips became doubly shrivelled and pinched up in the ghastly expression of death; a repulsive clamminess and coldness overspread rapidly the surface of the body; and all the usual rigorous illness immediately supervened."
15650,"Somebody had accosted him in the street, mistaking him for no less a personage than Doctor Dubble L. Dee, the lecturer upon quack physics."
15651,I have longed for a friend; I have sought one who would sympathize with and love me.
15652,"They were by no means uncivilized, however, but cultivated various arts and even sciences after a fashion of their own."
15653,"Raymond adduced many arguments and fervent persuasions to overcome her feeling, but she remained unconvinced; and, agitated by the discussion, she wildly and passionately made a solemn vow, to fly and hide herself where he never could discover her, where famine would soon bring death to conclude her woes, if he persisted in his to her disgracing offers."
15654,"So Iranon went out of the stable and walked over the narrow stone streets between the gloomy square houses of granite, seeking something green in the air of spring."
15655,"He was a little, pursy, pompous, passionate semicircular somebody, with a red nose, a thick scull, sic a long purse, and a strong sense of his own consequence."
15656,"A sensation of stupor oppressed me, as my eyes followed her retreating steps."
15657,"Mr. Garrick obtain'd Admittance only with Difficulty; for the Doctor, notwithstanding his great Friendship, was for ever affecting to decry the Stage and all Things connected with it."
15658,"In those days how often did I hear of his attractions, his wide spread conquests, his wit, his refined manners."
15659,"Upon passing the hand over them they seemed to have protruded from their sockets in no inconsiderable degree; and all objects in the car, and even the balloon itself, appeared distorted to my vision."
15660,"The duties, here, are simple, and not altogether unprofitable."
15661,"Le Don was instantly released, upon our narration of the circumstances with some comments from Dupin at the bureau of the Prefect of Police."
15662,"In the very next published number I had the proud satisfaction of seeing my poem printed at length, as the leading article, with the following significant words, prefixed in italics and between brackets: We call the attention of our readers to the subjoined admirable stanza on ""The Oil of Bob."""
15663,It was not until the expiration of a week that it was deemed necessary to offer a reward; and even then this reward was limited to a thousand francs.
15664,"In whatever way the shifting is managed, it is of course concealed at every step from observation."
15665,"In the darkness every faint noise of the night seemed magnified, and a flood of doubly unpleasant thoughts swept over me."
15666,"Amount entered in Journal fifty cents which see. ""Feb. ."
15667,"When they had thinned out enough to be glimpsed as separate organisms, I saw that they were dwarfed, deformed hairy devils or apes monstrous and diabolic caricatures of the monkey tribe."
15668,It is all in that ancestral diary I found; all the hushed innuendoes and furtive tales of things with a blemished eye seen at windows in the night or in deserted meadows near the woods.
15669,"I have keys, as you know, with which I can open any chamber or cabinet in Paris."
15670,"This pamphlet was not designed for the public eye, even upon the decease of the writer, as any person at all conversant with authorship may satisfy himself at once by the slightest inspection of the style."
15671,At length it forced it wrestled its way into my soul it burned itself in upon my shuddering reason.
15672,"Was I, then, a monster, a blot upon the earth, from which all men fled and whom all men disowned?"
15673,"The growing shadow rose and rose, filling, and then seeming to endeavour to burst beyond, the adamantine vault that bent over, sustaining and enclosing the world."
15674,"The hour had grown perilously late my watch said :, and the Arkham bus left Town Square at eight so I tried to give my thoughts as neutral and practical a cast as possible, meanwhile walking rapidly through the deserted streets of gaping roofs and leaning houses toward the hotel where I had checked my valise and would find my bus."
15675,"Armitage, with Rice and Morgan, started to walk in the direction indicated; and most of the natives followed slowly."
15676,"""Bless my soul why, he's the man"" "" mandragora Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep Which thou owd'st yesterday"" here roared our Climax just in my ear, and shaking his fist in my face all the time, in a way that I couldn't stand, and I wouldn't."
15677,"""We set out with a fresh wind on our starboard quarter, and for some time spanked along at a great rate, never dreaming of danger, for indeed we saw not the slightest reason to apprehend it."
15678,"Their outlines were human, semi human, fractionally human, and not human at all the horde was grotesquely heterogeneous."
15679,I cannot pretend to describe what I then felt.
15680,"Indeed, as the duties to be performed involve high responsibilities, and large amounts of money must necessarily pass through the hands of those engaged, it is deemed advisable to demand a deposit of fifty dollars from each clerk employed."
15681,"It seemed to have been constructed for no especial use in itself, but formed merely the interval between two of the colossal supports of the roof of the catacombs, and was backed by one of their circumscribing walls of solid granite."
15682,"And the boy said to him: ""Art thou not indeed he of whom the archons tell, who seekest a far city in a fair land?"
15683,"But those words are false, for the wave may be dark but it is not bitter."
15684,"Not the wild, raving most miserable Mathilda but a youthful Hermitess dedicated to seclusion and whose bosom she must strive to keep free from all tumult and unholy despair The fanciful nunlike dress that I had adopted; the knowledge that my very existence was a secret known only to myself; the solitude to which I was for ever hereafter destined nursed gentle thoughts in my wounded heart."
15685,"""We had a fellow here once,"" said a fat little gentleman, who sat at my right, ""a fellow that fancied himself a tea pot; and by the way, is it not especially singular how often this particular crotchet has entered the brain of the lunatic?"
15686,It was not possible to say how the injuries had been inflicted.
15687,At that instant some person tried the latch of the door.
15688,"Whateley saw how things stood, and tried to answer lightly."
15689,"Whether you ever get this letter or not is point of little importance, as I write altogether for my own amusement."
15690,"Be it your care to foster this similarity be it your care to render her worthy of him, so that, when she glory in her origin, she take not shame for what she is."""
15691,"Soon after dark they arrived, and gave me a most cordial welcome."
15692,"He gave old Matt the very best his skill could produce, but was thrifty enough to save the rejected specimen, and to use it when Asaph Sawyer died of a malignant fever."
15693,"Could we suppose an oversight in one, or two, or three, this oversight would have been remedied by a fourth."
15694,"The Frenchman followed in despair; the ape, razor still in hand, occasionally stopping to look back and gesticulate at its pursuer, until the latter had nearly come up with it."
15695,"The young woman was again occupied in arranging the cottage, the old man walked before the cottage in the sun for a few minutes, leaning on the arm of the youth."
15696,"I was going to run, but he stopped me."
15697,"Thus, thus, and not otherwise, shall I be lost."
15698,"Towards evening dark thunder clouds arose above the horrizon and I heard its distant roll after sunset they darkened the whole sky and it began to rain, the lightning lighted up the whole country and the thunder drowned the noise of our carriage."
15699,"The slopes which encompassed the vale could not fairly be called hills, unless at their northern face."
15700,"All my feelings, even of exultation and triumph, were changed to bitterness, if unparticipated; Perdita, even in joy, fled to loneliness, and could go on from day to day, neither expressing her emotions, nor seeking a fellow feeling in another mind."
15701,"He at length opened it, and drawing there from a huge letter sealed with red sealing wax and tied carefully with red tape, let it fall precisely at the feet of the burgomaster, Superbus Von Underduk."
15702,It was in a recess near the head of the ravine to the south of Hymettus.
15703,"The coming summer was the extreme end of our vista; and, when we arrived there, instead of a continuation of the long road, a gulph yawned, into which we must of force be precipitated."
15704,"Mr. L. makes his lens have a power of , times."
15705,"That party, however, could hardly yet be considered a minority in the kingdom, who extolled the ornament of the column, ""the Corinthian capital of polished society;"" they appealed to prejudices without number, to old attachments and young hopes; to the expectation of thousands who might one day become peers; they set up as a scarecrow, the spectre of all that was sordid, mechanic and base in the commercial republics."
15706,But in these accounts it is the fact it is the reality it is the history which excites.
15707,"For the hours of thy happiness are over and joy is not gathered twice in a life, as the roses of Paestum twice in a year."
15708,"The interruption was not produced by my fright, nor by the rapidly increasing storm amidst whose fury I was presently to open my eyes on a smoky solitude of blackened ruins."
15709,"This opinion, idle in itself, was the one to which, as I gazed, my imagination most readily assented; and, mentioning it to the guide, I was rather surprised to hear him say that, although it was the view almost universally entertained of the subject by the Norwegians, it nevertheless was not his own."
15710,The king elevated his forehead into innumerable wrinkles; the gouty little old man puffed like a pair of bellows; the lady of the winding sheet waved her nose to and fro; the gentleman in the cotton drawers pricked up his ears; she of the shroud gasped like a dying fish; and he of the coffin looked stiff and rolled up his eyes.
15711,"As the moon climbed higher in the sky, I began to see that the slopes of the valley were not quite so perpendicular as I had imagined."
15712,"During a free period he shewed the queer image to several professors, all of whom were intensely interested, though none of them could shed any light upon its nature or origin."
15713,"""The full moon damn ye ye . . ."
15714,"I did only a retail business myself, but my old habits of system carried me swimmingly along."
15715,"And through this revolting graveyard of the universe the muffled, maddening beating of drums, and thin, monotonous whine of blasphemous flutes from inconceivable, unlighted chambers beyond Time; the detestable pounding and piping whereunto dance slowly, awkwardly, and absurdly the gigantic, tenebrous ultimate gods the blind, voiceless, mindless gargoyles whose soul is Nyarlathotep."
15716,The face assumed the usual pinched and sunken outline.
15717,"The loungers reflected, thinking of the door and runway, and of the cattle that so swiftly disappeared."
15718,"His talents and general amiability had recommended him to the notice of the heiress, by whom he seems to have been truly beloved; but her pride of birth decided her, finally, to reject him, and to wed a Monsieur Renelle, a banker and a diplomatist of some eminence."
15719,"The adroitness, too, was no less worthy of observation by which he contrived to shift the sense of the grotesque from the creator to the created from his own person to the absurdities to which he had given rise."
15720,"If any one has a critical turn, it is he."
15721,Such visions as I had experienced were too much for me to endure again.
15722,"OF course I shall not pretend to consider it any matter for wonder, that the extraordinary case of M. Valdemar has excited discussion."
15723,"Oh, that I had forever remained in my native wood, nor known nor felt beyond the sensations of hunger, thirst, and heat ""Of what a strange nature is knowledge It clings to the mind when it has once seized on it like a lichen on the rock."
15724,Do not regret this; for death is a too terrible an sic object for the living.
15725,"Wilbur had with him the priceless but imperfect copy of Dr. Dee's English version which his grandfather had bequeathed him, and upon receiving access to the Latin copy he at once began to collate the two texts with the aim of discovering a certain passage which would have come on the st page of his own defective volume."
15726,"We also denied the request of a delegation headed by Seaman Zimmer, that the curious carved ivory head be cast into the sea."
15727,"After many struggles, she succeeded, and turned to join the company."
15728,"I felt, in my visions, a cosmic and abysmal loneness; with hostility surging from all sides upon some prison where I lay confined."
15729,Nothing could exceed the love and respect which the younger cottagers exhibited towards their venerable companion.
15730,"An' they's awful kinder marks in the yard, tew great raound marks bigger raound than a hogshead, an' all sticky with stuff like is on the blowed up haouse."
15731,"Gross stupidity, falsehood, and muddled thinking are not dream; and form no escape from life to a mind trained above their level."
15732,"In the morning Randolph was up early, and would have run off to the upper timber lot if Uncle Chris had not caught him and forced him into his chair by the breakfast table."
15733,"An officer of artillery, a man of gigantic stature and of robust health, being thrown from an unmanageable horse, received a very severe contusion upon the head, which rendered him insensible at once; the skull was slightly fractured, but no immediate danger was apprehended."
15734,It did not require the measured sounds of human language to syllable the story of my extasy.
15735,"""Proceed,"" I said; ""herein is the Amontillado."
15736,When the driver came out of the store I looked at him more carefully and tried to determine the source of my evil impression.
15737,"But the olive grove still stands, as does the tree growing out of the tomb of Kalos, and the old bee keeper told me that sometimes the boughs whisper to one another in the night wind, saying over and over again, ""Οἶδα Οἶδα I know I know"" We were sitting on a dilapidated seventeenth century tomb in the late afternoon of an autumn day at the old burying ground in Arkham, and speculating about the unnamable."
15738,"We were fellow sojourners for a week about six years ago, at Earl's Hotel, in Providence, Rhode Island; and I presume that I conversed with him, at various times, for some three or four hours altogether."
15739,For a long time I was their only care.
15740,"And then say that my father had surely lost his wits ever since my mother's death; that he was mad and that I was fortunate, for in one of his fits he might have killed me instead of destroying his own crazed being."
15741,"I quaintly termed the domination of the Baron Ritzner von Jung, ever rightly entered into the mystery which overshadowed his character."
15742,"There in the narrow hall, outside the bolted door with the covered keyhole, I often heard sounds which filled me with an indefinable dread the dread of vague wonder and brooding mystery."
15743,"Silent and sparkling, bright and baleful, those moon cursed waters hurried I knew not whither; whilst from the embowered banks white lotos blossoms fluttered one by one in the opiate night wind and dropped despairingly into the stream, swirling away horribly under the arched, carven bridge, and staring back with the sinister resignation of calm, dead faces."
15744,But in a brief period I ceased to think upon the subject; my attention being all absorbed in a contemplated departure for Oxford.
15745,Our man of business holds it as a point of his faith that work should never be paid for until done.
15746,There was a vibration as if the wood had fallen farther than it had fallen before.
15747,"Finally, with Carrington Harris's permission, I fitted a key to the disused door opening from the cellar directly upon Benefit Street, preferring to have a more immediate access to the outside world than the dark stairs, ground floor hall, and front door could give."
15748,The magistrate observed me with a keen eye and of course drew an unfavourable augury from my manner.
15749,"Then came a sort of island of higher ground, where the line passed through a shallow open cut choked with bushes and brambles."
15750,"I passed an hour in this state of mind, when suddenly I reflected how fearful the combat which I momentarily expected would be to my wife, and I earnestly entreated her to retire, resolving not to join her until I had obtained some knowledge as to the situation of my enemy."
15751,"I have said that he was a poet: when he was three and twenty years of age he first published a poem, and it was hailed by the whole nation with enthusiasm and delight."
15752,"I had not seen him since that day, two months and a half before, when he had told me toward what goal his physical and metaphysical researches were leading; when he had answered my awed and almost frightened remonstrances by driving me from his laboratory and his house in a burst of fanatical rage."
15753,"Do so; if your high heart, incapable of my infirmity of purpose, refuses to bend to the lowness of mine."
15754,"In investigations such as we are now pursuing, it should not be so much asked 'what has occurred,' as 'what has occurred that has never occurred before.'"
15755,"I began putting out feelers as we walked along to Water Street and turned southward amidst the omnipresent desolation and crazily tilted ruins, but found that the aged tongue did not loosen as quickly as I had expected."
15756,Indeed I had no fear on her account.
15757,"For a moment there was a wild lurid light alone, visiting and penetrating all things."
15758,"As it is, the constables have had a sad time of it, running hither and thither, and all they can do is to declare the man of business most emphatically, a ""hen knee high"" by which some persons imagine them to imply that, in fact, he is n."
15759,The sentence had passed; and it appeared to me that a very long interval of time had since elapsed.
15760,"""A thousand pounds,"" said I. ""Beautiful"" said he, entranced."
15761,"My father was enraptured on finding me freed from the vexations of a criminal charge, that I was again allowed to breathe the fresh atmosphere and permitted to return to my native country."
15762,"We were soon overpowered by numbers, and driven to seek refuge in a species of kiosk."
15763,"why, ""of Lord Cornwallis."""
15764,"The old man was pulling at my sleeve, but I was determined to be the last."
15765,"His countenance expressed sympathy and compassion; he drew a chair close to mine and addressed me in French, ""I fear that this place is very shocking to you; can I do anything to make you more comfortable?"""
15766,"I felt ahead, touched the back of Zann's chair, and then found and shook his shoulder in an effort to bring him to his senses."
15767,"Then, summoning the wild courage of despair, a throng of the revellers at once threw themselves into the black apartment, and, seizing the mummer, whose tall figure stood erect and motionless within the shadow of the ebony clock, gasped in unutterable horror at finding the grave cerements and corpse like mask which they handled with so violent a rudeness, untenanted by any tangible form."
15768,"It was riveted and studded with iron bolts, and surmounted with jagged iron spikes."
15769,"'They were all mildewed down hard,' says Le Soleil, adopting the opinions of its predecessors, 'with the action of the rain, and stuck together from mildew."
15770,Henry deeply felt the misfortune of being debarred from a liberal education.
15771,"The impulse increases to a wish, the wish to a desire, the desire to an uncontrollable longing, and the longing to the deep regret and mortification of the speaker, and in defiance of all consequences is indulged."
15772,Thou shalt shew me the ways of travel and I will attend thy songs at evening when the stars one by one bring dreams to the minds of dreamers.
15773,"Spirits of Good, behold the tears of my earnest prayer Bless my child Protect her from the selfish among her fellow creatures: protect her from the agonies of passion, and the despair of disappointment Peace, Hope and Love be thy guardians, oh, thou soul of my soul: thou in whom I breathe ""I dare not read my letter over for I have no time to write another, and yet I fear that some expressions in it might displease me."
15774,"It is useless, of course, to dwell upon my joy upon my transport upon my illimitable ecstasy of heart."
15775,"They are, succinctly, these: My attention, for the last three years, had been repeatedly drawn to the subject of Mesmerism; and, about nine months ago it occurred to me, quite suddenly, that in the series of experiments made hitherto, there had been a very remarkable and most unaccountable omission: no person had as yet been mesmerized in articulo mortis."
15776,"The embalming compound had worked uncannily well, for as I stared fascinatedly at the sturdy frame which had lain two weeks without stiffening I was moved to seek West's assurance that the thing was really dead."
15777,I drew a touching picture of his vacillating health; I boasted of my own strength.
15778,"From this he read me one of the drollest chapters in the world concerning ""Injuriae per applicationem, per constructionem, et per se,"" about half of which, he averred, was strictly applicable to his own ""refinedly peculiar"" case, although not one syllable of the whole matter could I understand for the life of me."
15779,Thus a great step has been taken.
15780,Their splendor more dazzled than enlightened me.
15781,"And then down we came with a sweep, a slide, and a plunge, that made me feel sick and dizzy, as if I was falling from some lofty mountain top in a dream."
15782,"That was seven years before, but West looked scarcely a day older now he was small, blond, clean shaven, soft voiced, and spectacled, with only an occasional flash of a cold blue eye to tell of the hardening and growing fanaticism of his character under the pressure of his terrible investigations."
15783,"""Principally females, I presume?"" ""Oh, no every one of them men, and stout fellows, too, I can tell you."""
15784,"If you see anything strange, let me know."""
15785,"Then we split up into narrow columns, each of which seemed drawn in a different direction."
15786,"He has obtained his prize, and he pilots his boat through the flood; our eyes were fixed on him fearfully, but the stream carried him away from us; he was forced to land far lower down, and to make a considerable circuit before he could join us."
15787,The night shift did not go on that evening.
15788,"He had enjoyed my listening to his music, and wished I would come again and not mind his eccentricities."
15789,"And, all this done, let us again compare these various communications with the known MSS. of the officer."
15790,When I quitted Geneva my first labour was to gain some clue by which I might trace the steps of my fiendish enemy.
15791,"But my heart sank within me as with bitter sickness, and I refrained."
15792,"Its sweep was brief, and of course slow."
15793,The apartment was superb.
15794,"""Dearest Clerval,"" exclaimed I, ""how kind, how very good you are to me."
15795,Thus it is abundantly clear that the gang quitted the Barrière du Roule prior to the screams overheard ?
15796,"And now the Comforter fled for ever, and a still sterner Despair reigned triumphant; for I could not help perceiving the absence of the paddings which I had so carefully prepared and then, too, there came suddenly to my nostrils the strong peculiar odor of moist earth."
15797,"Well it was here we sat together, and when you hear all that past all that of terrible tore our souls even in this placid spot, which but for strange passions might have been a paradise to us, you will not wonder that I remember it as I looked on it that its calm might give me calm, and inspire me not only with courage but with persuasive words."
15798,"It was labelled as of probable East Indian or Indo Chinese provenance, though the attribution was frankly tentative."
15799,"As I gradually steadied myself and got readjusted to this second room of deviltry and morbidity, I began to analyse some of the points in my sickening loathing."
15800,"It has occurred to me, therefore, that I may as well retire from the field of Letters and repose upon my laurels."
15801,"He was the only one as kep' on with the East Injy an' Pacific trade, though Esdras Martin's barkentine Malay Pride made a venter as late as 'twenty eight."
15802,"Shudderingly I felt that I knew what had obliterated the unfortunate servants, and could not exclude the things from my mind as I strove to observe other properties of the newly visible world that lies unseen around us."
15803,"For that which was not for that which had no form for that which had no thought for that which had no sentience for that which was soulless, yet of which matter formed no portion for all this nothingness, yet for all this immortality, the grave was still a home, and the corrosive hours, co mates."
15804,"The hue of the orbs was the most brilliant of black, and, far over them, hung jetty lashes of great length."
15805,"When the last of the band was out of sight I resumed my progress; darting around the corner into Lafayette Street, and crossing Eliot very hurriedly lest stragglers of the party be still advancing along that thoroughfare."
15806,"His interest became a hellish and perverse addiction to the repellently and fiendishly abnormal; he gloated calmly over artificial monstrosities which would make most healthy men drop dead from fright and disgust; he became, behind his pallid intellectuality, a fastidious Baudelaire of physical experiment a languid Elagabalus of the tombs."
15807,"""Why, I will tell you,"" replied the Prefect, as he gave a long, steady and contemplative puff, and settled himself in his chair."
15808,"With the same wary prudence that characterized her whole conduct, she concealed her discovery, but hastened to remove her son from the sphere of the attractive Greek."
15809,He was nurtured in prosperity and attended by all its advantages; every one loved him and wished to gratify him.
15810,"He entered, at some length, into what he conceived to be the nature of his malady."
15811,"""You well know, Victor, that our union had been the favourite plan of your parents ever since our infancy."
15812,That certain wags in Rotterdam have certain especial antipathies to certain burgomasters and astronomers.
15813,"Moreover, for the first time in my life I experienced the emotion of dread."
15814,"Scores of rabbits and guinea pigs had been killed and treated, but their trail was a blind one."
15815,"Non Euclidean calculus and quantum physics are enough to stretch any brain; and when one mixes them with folklore, and tries to trace a strange background of multi dimensional reality behind the ghoulish hints of the Gothic tales and the wild whispers of the chimney corner, one can hardly expect to be wholly free from mental tension."
15816,"Joe knew about such things, for his grandmother in the old country had heard tales from her grandmother."
15817,"This epoch these later years took unto themselves a sudden elevation in turpitude, whose origin alone it is my present purpose to assign."
15818,"He spoke, too, of that Edmund Carter who had just escaped hanging in the Salem witchcraft, and who had placed in an antique box a great silver key handed down from his ancestors."
15819,What baffled us was our utter ignorance of the aspect in which we might encounter the thing.
15820,"Adrian, the matchless brother of my soul, the sensitive and excellent Adrian, loving all, and beloved by all, yet seemed destined not to find the half of himself, which was to complete his happiness."
15821,"She is the celebrated Madame Lalande the beauty of the day par excellence, and the talk of the whole town."
15822,When we were in company he affected gaiety but I wept to hear his hollow laugh begun by an empty smile and often ending in a bitter sneer such as never before this fatal period had wrinkled his lips.
15823,"His forehead was lofty and very fair; his nose a snub; his eyes large, heavy, glassy, and meaningless."
15824,"The Emma's men shewed fight, says the survivor, and though the schooner began to sink from shots beneath the waterline they managed to heave alongside their enemy and board her, grappling with the savage crew on the yacht's deck, and being forced to kill them all, the number being slightly superior, because of their particularly abhorrent and desperate though rather clumsy mode of fighting."
15825,The necessary knowledge is that of what to observe.
15826,"This noble spirited note I kissed a million times, and committed, no doubt, on its account, a thousand other extravagances that have now escaped my memory."
15827,"These thoughts encouraged Raymond, as he stood at the door of the highest room of the house."
15828,"Lord Raymond requested permission to accompany her to Windsor Castle, to which she consented, and they quitted the cottage together."
15829,"My supply of water had been put on board in kegs containing five gallons each, and ranged very securely around the interior of the car."
15830,"Old legends are hazy and ambiguous, and in historic times all attempts at crossing forbidden gaps seem complicated by strange and terrible alliances with beings and messengers from outside."
15831,"The time elapsing between the hearing of the voices in contention and the breaking open of the room door, was variously stated by the witnesses."
15832,"They were not expressed in words, nor even reduced to form in my own mind; but they filled my soul, exalting my thoughts, raising a glow of enthusiasm, and led me out of the obscure path in which I before walked, into the bright noon enlightened highway of mankind, making me, citizen of the world, a candidate for immortal honors, an eager aspirant to the praise and sympathy of my fellow men."
15833,"For a short time he remained silent, apparently striving to master his emotion."
15834,We passed St. Paul's.
15835,"The body of the journal, as given, is in the hand writing of Mr. Mason, and a P. S. is appended, each day, by Mr. Ainsworth, who has in preparation, and will shortly give the public a more minute, and no doubt, a thrillingly interesting account of the voyage."
15836,"""A friend,"" replied Raymond in the same dialect."
15837,"""Something of that kind."""
15838,The oldest seaman in Norway never experienced any thing like it.
15839,That was what she said.
15840,"""It could not have been more than two minutes afterward until we suddenly felt the waves subside, and were enveloped in foam."
15841,"There had been much in her stern nature to impress me with the belief that, to her, death would have come without its terrors; but not so."
15842,"Alas who is safe, if she be convicted of crime?"
15843,"Being more than a little piqued at the Incivility of one whose Celebrity made me solicitous of his Approbation, I ventur'd to retaliate in kind, and told him, I was surpris'd that a Man of Sense shou'd judge the Thoughtfulness of one whose Productions he admitted never having read."
15844,"Wilson,"" said our host, stooping to remove from beneath his feet an exceedingly luxurious cloak of rare furs, ""Mr."
15845,"In a few minutes the voice was heard again, announcing that the seventh limb was attained."
15846,"Oh, no, no so go home at once, now, John, to your odious old woods of Concord Go home to your woods, old owl go You won't Oh, poh, poh, don't do so You've got to go, you know So go at once, and don't go slow, for nobody owns you here, you know Oh John, John, if you don't go you're no homo no You're only a fowl, an owl, a cow, a sow, a doll, a poll; a poor, old, good for nothing to nobody, log, dog, hog, or frog, come out of a Concord bog."
15847,"When the situation of the game is difficult or complex, we never perceive the Turk either shake his head or roll his eyes."
15848,"My ardour was indeed the astonishment of the students, and my proficiency that of the masters."
15849,But I perceive we have arrived at the city itself.
15850,"Under the circumstances of large reward offered, and full pardon to any King's evidence, it is not to be imagined, for a moment, that some member of a gang of low ruffians, or of any body of men, would not long ago have betrayed his accomplices."
15851,"""This bug is to make my fortune,"" he continued, with a triumphant smile, ""to reinstate me in my family possessions."
15852,The eye easily discerns the sister land; they were united once; and the little path that runs between looks in a map but as a trodden footway through high grass.
15853,"I might feel gratitude to another but I never more could love or hope as I had done; it was all suffering; even my pleasures were endured, not enjoyed."
15854,In the middle of the room stood a table in the centre of which again arose a huge tub of what appeared to be punch.
15855,"These folk say that on a table in a bare room on the ground floor are many peculiar bottles, in each a small piece of lead suspended pendulum wise from a string."
15856,"On every hand were the signs of neglect and decrepitude, and I seemed haunted by the notion that Warren and I were the first living creatures to invade a lethal silence of centuries."
15857,"She left me, and I continued some time walking up and down the passages of the house and inspecting every corner that might afford a retreat to my adversary."
15858,We quitted Athens on the nd of June.
15859,"A fourth could only suppose it the Yankee's design to X press, in a general way, his X asperation."
15860,I AM come of a race noted for vigor of fancy and ardor of passion.
15861,Nothing is more vague than impressions of individual identity.
15862,"It is separated from the main land by a scarcely perceptible creek, oozing its way through a wilderness of reeds and slime, a favorite resort of the marsh hen."
15863,"So Carter bought stranger books and sought out deeper and more terrible men of fantastic erudition; delving into arcana of consciousness that few have trod, and learning things about the secret pits of life, legend, and immemorial antiquity which disturbed him ever afterward."
15864,"In this manner, at last, I would perpetually catch myself pondering upon my security, and repeating, in a low undertone, the phrase, ""I am safe."""
15865,"The dream narratives and cuttings collected by the professor were, of course, strong corroboration; but the rationalism of my mind and the extravagance of the whole subject led me to adopt what I thought the most sensible conclusions."
15866,"Who shall say where the one ends, and where the other begins?"
15867,I am not immortal; and the thread of my history might be spun out to the limits of my existence.
15868,He must sign in his own blood the book of Azathoth and take a new secret name now that his independent delvings had gone so far.
15869,A vain concession; his demeanour quickly betrayed his secret to the quick eyes of the ex queen.
15870,"""I had told you that this was in reference to Orion, formerly written Urion; and, from certain pungencies connected with this explanation, I was aware that you could not have forgotten it."
15871,"It will appear perhaps an observation somewhat over curious, but this wood would have every characteristic of Spanish oak, if Spanish oak were distended by any unnatural means."
15872,"In this narrative I have therefore designated myself as William Wilson, a fictitious title not very dissimilar to the real."
15873,His eye would trouble me no more.
15874,"It seems these Kanakys was sacrificin' heaps o' their young men an' maidens to some kind o' god things that lived under the sea, an' gittin' all kinds o' favour in return."
15875,"Here was, indeed, the fairest field for the display of invention, or imagination, in the endless combining of forms of novel Beauty; the elements which should enter into combination being, at all times, and by a vast superiority, the most glorious which the earth could afford."
15876,"The fact is, Sir Humphrey Davy was about the last man in the world to commit himself on scientific topics."
15877,During this short voyage I saw the lightning playing on the summit of Mont Blanc in the most beautiful figures.
15878,"He wa'n't all human hisself, I allus says to everybody; an' I think he an' Ol' Whateley must a raised suthin' in that there nailed up haouse as ain't even so human as he was."
15879,"Now, all this is the result either of inability in Maelzel to do better, or of intentional neglect accidental neglect being out of the question, when we consider that the whole time of the ingenious proprietor is occupied in the improvement of his machines."
15880,A sentiment approaching happiness followed the total resignation of one's being to the guardianship of the world's ruler.
15881,"Having filled my pockets with the flashlight's aid, I put on my hat and tiptoed to the windows to consider chances of descent."
15882,Yes I repeat it as thou shouldst be.
15883,"""In Greek we must have some thing pretty from Demosthenes, for example."
15884,"The fact of our coming death affected him curiously, and he would frequently pray in remorse over the men, women, and children we had sent to the bottom; forgetting that all things are noble which serve the German state."
15885,Perdita grew in beauty and excellence under his eye; I no longer recognised my reserved abstracted sister in the fascinating and open hearted wife of Raymond.
15886,Who can follow an animal which can traverse the sea of ice and inhabit caves and dens where no man would venture to intrude?
15887,"Elwood had been studying in the small hours and had come up for help on a differential equation, only to find Gilman absent."
15888,Here the well written and urgent communications to the journals are much in the way of corroboration.
15889,What he said tallied up with what I'd heard.
15890,"They only saw a poor girl broken in spirit, who spoke in a low and gentle voice, and from underneath whose downcast lids tears would sometimes steal which she strove to hide."
15891,"He soon took great interest in me, and sometimes forgot his own grief to sit beside me and endeavour to cheer me."
15892,"There's poetry in this sort of thing, you know or perhaps you don't know, but it's all the same."""
15893,"My heart, which was before sorrowful, now swelled with something like joy; I exclaimed, ""Wandering spirits, if indeed ye wander, and do not rest in your narrow beds, allow me this faint happiness, or take me, as your companion, away from the joys of life."""
15894,But not so: he was made to diddle.
15895,"Its forests are of aloe and sandalwood, even as the fragrant groves of Camorin, and among the trees flutter gay birds sweet with song."
15896,"But here were books, and here were men who had penetrated deeper and knew more."
15897,They say too that the whole expression of my countenance had changed.
15898,"Dr. Halsey in particular had distinguished himself in sacrificing service, applying his extreme skill with whole hearted energy to cases which many others shunned because of danger or apparent hopelessness."
15899,Shortly before ten the next morning I stood with one small valise in front of Hammond's Drug Store in old Market Square waiting for the Innsmouth bus.
15900,We peer into the abyss we grow sick and dizzy.
15901,I left my guardian's house and I was never heard of again; it was believed from the letters that I left and other circumstances that I planned that I had destroyed myself.
15902,"I then thought that my father would be unjust if he ascribed my neglect to vice or faultiness on my part, but I am now convinced that he was justified in conceiving that I should not be altogether free from blame."
15903,"Nor was there ever a marble city of Aira, nor those who could delight in strange songs, save in the dreams of mine old playmate Iranon who is gone."""
15904,The very letters have an air of profundity about them.
15905,"Lionel, he sleeps there; that is the grave of Raymond, he whom in my youth I first loved; whom my heart accompanied in days of separation and anger; to whom I am now joined for ever."
15906,"All men paid homage to Kalos and Musides, and marvelled that no shadow of artistic jealousy cooled the warmth of their brotherly friendship."
15907,"I found that the sparrow uttered none but harsh notes, whilst those of the blackbird and thrush were sweet and enticing."
15908,The great problem is accomplished.
15909,"He knew that I could not have a more kind and attentive nurse than himself; and, firm in the hope he felt of my recovery, he did not doubt that, instead of doing harm, he performed the kindest action that he could towards them."
15910,"Better have loved despair, safer kissed her."
15911,"I retired to rest at night; my slumbers, as it were, waited on and ministered to by the assemblance of grand shapes which I had contemplated during the day."
15912,"Let us suppose, gentle reader, that it is now the year of the world three thousand eight hundred and thirty, and let us, for a few minutes, imagine ourselves at that most grotesque habitation of man, the remarkable city of Antioch."
15913,"Glancing at the people on the sidewalks, I thought I detected in them a curious wish to avoid looking at the bus or at least a wish to avoid seeming to look at it."
15914,"By what miracle I escaped destruction, it is impossible to say."
15915,"I remarked, as I say, their grotesqueness and strange size; but in a moment decided that they were merely the imaginary gods of some primitive fishing or seafaring tribe; some tribe whose last descendant had perished eras before the first ancestor of the Piltdown or Neanderthal Man was born."
15916,"When I saw this lore, I knew that it touched on the scenes I had haunted, and I therefore read long in the yellowed papyrus."
15917,"Elwood will never forget it, and was forced to stay out of college the rest of the term because of the resulting nervous breakdown."
15918,But in all this in this identification of mere matter with God is there nothing of irreverence?
15919,Other nurses were procured; and at ten o'clock I left the house in company with the two physicians and Mr. L l.
15920,"This town had some queer people, and there had undoubtedly been several disappearances."
15921,"Stupified and aghast, I had myself no power to move from the upright position I had assumed upon first hearing the shriek, and must have presented to the eyes of the agitated group a spectral and ominous appearance, as with pale countenance and rigid limbs, I floated down among them in that funereal gondola."
15922,During the next few days Gilman enjoyed an almost perfect immunity from morbid manifestations.
15923,"I learned, from the views of social life which it developed, to admire their virtues and to deprecate the vices of mankind."
15924,Is it wonderful that the one known atrocity should influence the popular judgment in regard to the other unknown?
15925,"I have seen the captain face to face, and in his own cabin but, as I expected, he paid me no attention."
15926,"""Never was nobody like Cap'n Obed old limb o' Satan Heh, heh I kin mind him a tellin' abaout furren parts, an' callin' all the folks stupid fer goin' to Christian meetin' an' bearin' their burdens meek an' lowly."
15927,"And the man listened to the sighs of the water lilies, and to the murmur that came up from among them."
15928,"Guard, I entreat you, a firm persuasion of my sincerity in the inmost recesses of your heart out of the reach of the casual winds that may disturb its surface."
15929,The only substantial disappointment encountered in this site was that which concerned the prevalence of violent thunderstorms in summer.
15930,"Upon this text many fanatics arose, who prophesied that the end of time was come."
15931,They must be up to something.
15932,"""Humph"" said I, twisting it to one side."
15933,"P. Still, there is one of your expressions which I find it impossible to comprehend ""the truly substantive vastness of infinity."""
15934,"Thus it will be seen that no two of the candles are of the same height, and thus also the difficulty of ascertaining the material of the breast of the figure against which the light is especially directed is greatly augmented by the dazzling effect of the complicated crossings of the rays crossings which are brought about by placing the centres of radiation all upon different levels. ."
15935,"He talked but little, and usually in the common jargon of the underworld; but occasionally, when inflamed by an unusually generous dose of crude whiskey, would burst forth into strings of incomprehensible polysyllables and snatches of sonorous prose and verse which led certain habitués to conjecture that he had seen better days."
15936,Look over Channing's poems and quote what he says about a 'fat little man with a delusive show of Can.' Put in something about the Supernal Oneness.
15937,"Moulded by the dead brain of a hybrid nightmare, would not such a vaporous terror constitute in all loathsome truth the exquisitely, the shriekingly unnamable?"
15938,"All this aggressive mechanism we set in the cellar in positions carefully arranged with reference to the cot and chairs, and to the spot before the fireplace where the mould had taken strange shapes."
15939,"Soft tears again bedewed my cheeks, and I even raised my humid eyes with thankfulness towards the blessed sun, which bestowed such joy upon me."
15940,"There can be no doubt, as we have before observed, and as we will presently endeavor to show, that the principle, or rather the result, of this solution is the true one."
15941,"He would not, he found, have to pile another on his platform to make the proper height; for the hole was on exactly the right level to use as soon as its size might permit."
15942,"Reasoning and persuasion were thrown away upon her; she would endure no hindrance, no delay."
15943,Yet I would die to make her happy.
15944,"Pluto had not a white hair upon any portion of his body; but this cat had a large, although indefinite splotch of white, covering nearly the whole region of the breast."
15945,"""And you never confined your patients?"""
15946,"When she got Sally Sawyer, housekeeper at Seth Bishop's, the nearest place to Whateley's, it became her turn to listen instead of transmit; for Sally's boy Chauncey, who slept poorly, had been up on the hill toward Whateley's, and had dashed back in terror after one look at the place, and at the pasturage where Mr. Bishop's cows had been left out all night."
15947,"This kind of popularity, like every other, is evanescent: and the difficulties of every kind with which he had to contend, increased in a frightful ratio compared with his small means of extricating himself."
15948,"Indeed, the direction I had hitherto taken, had filled me with uneasiness; for it was evident that, had I continued it much longer, there would have been no possibility of my arriving at the moon at all, whose orbit is inclined to the ecliptic at only the small angle of degrees ' "". ""April th."
15949,"He is usually removed to the public hospitals."""
15950,"Greek phrase Anerh o pheugoen kai palin makesetai There is a tolerably good translation of it in Hudibras 'For he that flies may fight again, Which he can never do that's slain.' ""In a Blackwood article nothing makes so fine a show as your Greek."
15951,Great God What agony I endured.
15952,"May not even this be a feint that will increase your triumph by affording a wider scope for your revenge?"" ""How is this?"
15953,"There for with your leave, my sister, I will put some trust in preceding navigators there snow and frost are banished; and, sailing over a calm sea, we may be wafted to a land surpassing in wonders and in beauty every region hitherto discovered on the habitable globe."
15954,On the night of her return she sickened of the plague.
15955,"I had begun to dig in the afternoon, because a thunderstorm was brewing, and now that it was dark and the storm had burst above the maniacally thick foliage I was glad."
15956,"The vault above became obscured, lightning flashed from the heavy masses, followed instantaneously by crashing thunder; then the big rain fell."
15957,"I stood beside the sources of the Arveiron, which take their rise in a glacier, that with slow pace is advancing down from the summit of the hills to barricade the valley."
15958,"With Mr. Addison and Dr. Swift I later became very well acquainted, and was an even more familiar Friend to Mr. Pope, whom I knew and respected till the Day of his Death."
15959,"The few members who were present, had come more for the sake of terminating the business by securing a legal attendance, than under the idea of a debate."
15960,If I fled I should be pursued; in life there was no escape for me: why then I must die.
15961,"Upon making this discovery I ceased to sleep comfortably; though something of resigned tranquillity came back as I gradually formed the habit of keeping off the streets by day and venturing abroad only at night, when darkness calls forth what little of the past still hovers wraith like about, and old white doorways remember the stalwart forms that once passed through them."
15962,This purpose is now accomplished; he will never see me more.
15963,"It had been a favourite resort of Adrian; it was secluded; and he often said that in boyhood, his happiest hours were spent here; having escaped the stately bondage of his mother, he sat on the rough hewn steps that led to the spring, now reading a favourite book, now musing, with speculation beyond his years, on the still unravelled skein of morals or metaphysics."
15964,I could have clasped the red walls to my bosom as a garment of eternal peace.
15965,"From the position near the stone wall, as described, the buildings were seen at great advantage for the southeastern angle was thrown forward so that the eye took in at once the whole of the two fronts, with the picturesque eastern gable, and at the same time obtained just a sufficient glimpse of the northern wing, with parts of a pretty roof to the spring house, and nearly half of a light bridge that spanned the brook in the near vicinity of the main buildings."
15966,"The rattling continued, growing somewhat louder."
15967,"Folks see his three darters a wearin' gold like things as nobody'd never see on 'em afore, an' smoke started comin' aout o' the refin'ry chimbly."
15968,"He heard a lock rattle and bolt shoot, and a long creaking follow as if a heavy door were slowly and cautiously opened."
15969,"This difference is sufficient to cause the body to sink, as a general rule; but is insufficient in the cases of individuals with small bones and an abnormal quantity of flaccid or fatty matter."
15970,Quite an analogous diddle is this.
15971,"It was apparent that my conversation had interested the father in my behalf, and I was a fool in having exposed my person to the horror of his children."
15972,"I can hardly describe the mood in which I was left by this harrowing episode an episode at once mad and pitiful, grotesque and terrifying."
15973,"The knowledge that I am here, rises with me in the morning, and enables me to endure the light; it is mingled with my food, which else were poison; it walks, it sleeps with me, for ever it accompanies me."
15974,"She continued to rave of her speedy meeting with her beloved in the grave, of his death nigh at hand; sometimes she solemnly declared that he was summoned; sometimes she bewailed his hard destiny."
15975,Now and then on some mountain top a gaunt circle of stones could be glimpsed against the sky.
15976,"""I remember, the first time that I did this, the young woman, when she opened the door in the morning, appeared greatly astonished on seeing a great pile of wood on the outside."
15977,"What demon urged me to breathe that sound, which in its very recollection was wont to make ebb the purple blood in torrents from the temples to the heart?"
15978,I endeavoured to change my course but quickly found that if I again made the attempt the boat would be instantly filled with water.
15979,In this way the coach proceeded until it arrived opposite the chair of the young prince.
15980,"His careless extravagance, which made him squander immense sums of money to satisfy passing whims, which from their apparent energy he dignified with the name of passions, often displayed itself in unbounded generosity."
15981,"She swallowed the wine unhesitatingly, and I forbore to speak to her of a circumstance which must, after all, I considered, have been but the suggestion of a vivid imagination, rendered morbidly active by the terror of the lady, by the opium, and by the hour."
15982,"We all sign the initials of the society after our names, in the fashion of the R. S. A., Royal Society of Arts the S. D. U. K., Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, c, c."
15983,"Locked in his embrace, she spoke thus, and cast back her head, seeking an assent to her words in his eyes they were sparkling with ineffable delight."
15984,"Now north of archaic Kingsport the crags climb lofty and curious, terrace on terrace, till the northernmost hangs in the sky like a grey frozen wind cloud."
15985,"She looked on it as a deceitful dream, and tried to throw off the consciousness of it; but like the shirt of Nessus, it clung to her very flesh, and ate with sharp agony into her vital principle."
15986,"Chance or rather the evil influence, the Angel of Destruction, which asserted omnipotent sway over me from the moment I turned my reluctant steps from my father's door led me first to M. Krempe, professor of natural philosophy."
15987,"for the convulsive pressure of that trembling hand? that hand which fell, as Mentoni turned into the palace, accidentally, upon the hand of the stranger."
15988,"Was man, indeed, at once so powerful, so virtuous and magnificent, yet so vicious and base?"
15989,And he said that the young man we had found and tossed overboard was their leader.
15990,"He boasted to me, with a low chuckling laugh, that most men, in respect to himself, wore windows in their bosoms, and was wont to follow up such assertions by direct and very startling proofs of his intimate knowledge of my own."
15991,One of the three it is not certain which shrieked aloud at what sprawled before them among disordered tables and overturned chairs.
15992,"The risk of the achievement was, in fact, now over, although the climber was some sixty or seventy feet from the ground."
15993,"My father saw this change with pleasure, and he turned his thoughts towards the best method of eradicating the remains of my melancholy, which every now and then would return by fits, and with a devouring blackness overcast the approaching sunshine."
15994,"V. I am willing to do so, but it requires more effort than I feel able to make."
15995,"Over him hung a form which I cannot find words to describe gigantic in stature, yet uncouth and distorted in its proportions."
15996,This is no hypothesis.
15997,"At length I saw him at some distance, seated under a tree, and when he perceived me he waved his hand several times, beckoning me to approach; there was something unearthly in his mien that awed and chilled me, but I drew near."
15998,"These works I cut up thoroughly with a currycomb, and then, throwing the shreds into a sieve, sifted out carefully all that might be thought decent, a mere trifle; reserving the hard phrases, which I threw into a large tin pepper castor with longitudinal holes, so that an entire sentence could get through without material injury."
15999,"The more he reflected on the hellish diary, the more he was inclined to doubt the efficacy of any material agent in stamping out the entity which Wilbur Whateley had left behind him the earth threatening entity which, unknown to him, was to burst forth in a few hours and become the memorable Dunwich horror."
16000,"The sound of the waves was left behind; that of the multitude continued at intervals, supressed and hoarse; and though, in the city, the houses, churches, and public buildings were decorated with tapestry and banners though the soldiery lined the streets, and the inhabitants in thousands were assembled to give him hail, the same solemn silence prevailed, the soldiery presented arms, the banners vailed, many a white hand waved a streamer, and vainly sought to discern the hero in the vehicle, which, closed and encompassed by the city guards, drew him to the palace allotted for his abode."
16001,"She fears for the children she adores, and for you, the father of these, her lover, husband, protector; and you must be near her to support and encourage her."
16002,"In the mean time my friend occupied himself, with what seemed to me a minuteness altogether objectless, in a scrutiny of the various newspaper files."
16003,To what extent could the laws of sanity apply to such a case?
16004,"""Where can he be?"" said little Miss Bas Bleu."
16005,"But, unhappily, in proportion to the increase of size in the lens, and consequently of space penetrating power, is the diminution of light from the object, by diffusion of its rays."
16006,At Sabbat time it always mounted and reached through to the worlds to summon the initiate to nameless rites.
16007,"He tore from reality the mask with which she had been clothed; and the purposes of Raymond, which before had crept around, ensnaring by stealth, now stood a hunted stag even at bay as all perceived who watched the irrepressible changes of his countenance."
16008,"Nothing that I could have imagined nothing, even, that I could have gathered had I credited old Zadok's crazy tale in the most literal way would be in any way comparable to the daemoniac, blasphemous reality that I saw or believe I saw."
16009,"""That was the evidence itself,"" said Dupin, ""but it was not the peculiarity of the evidence."
16010,"She figured to herself their life in the Greek isle he had selected for their retreat; her task of soothing him; her cares for the beauteous Clara, her rides in his company, her dedication of herself to his consolation."
16011,They were so hideously silent; there was hardly a squeal when one of the last stragglers turned with the skill of long practice to make a meal in accustomed fashion on a weaker companion.
16012,"That the true result of the natural style of gardening is seen rather in the absence of all defects and incongruities than in the creation of any special wonders or miracles, is a proposition better suited to the grovelling apprehension of the herd than to the fervid dreams of the man of genius."
16013,"Light indeed glowed on the panels ahead, but it was not any light that the moon gives."
16014,"The day passed, and still he did not return."
16015,"Professor Angell, as befitted one of his authority and attainments, had had a prominent part in all the deliberations; and was one of the first to be approached by the several outsiders who took advantage of the convocation to offer questions for correct answering and problems for expert solution."
16016,"He was a fool, beyond doubt, whoever he was, and got not a kick more than he deserved."
16017,"From a feeling of cunning blindly exercised, the officious, if not malignant messenger, did not speak of Evadne's illness; but she garrulously gave an account of Raymond's frequent visits, adding to her narration such circumstances, as, while they convinced Perdita of its truth, exaggerated the unkindness and perfidy of Raymond."
16018,"Plainly, this house was of the old world."
16019,"Age and care had furrowed her cheeks, and bent her form; but her eye was still bright, her manners authoritative and unchanged; she received her daughter coldly, but displayed more feeling as she folded her grand children in her arms."
16020,"""Hear, O ye inhabitants of the earth,"" he cried, ""hear thou, all seeing, but most pitiless Heaven hear thou too, O tempest tossed heart, which breathes out these words, yet faints beneath their meaning Death is among us The earth is beautiful and flower bedecked, but she is our grave The clouds of heaven weep for us the pageantry of the stars is but our funeral torchlight."
16021,"Their hand is at your throats, yet ye see Them not; and Their habitation is even one with your guarded threshold."
16022,You appeared so utterly astonished.
16023,Hundreds of English residents returned to their own country.
16024,"Has this mind, so replete with ideas, imaginations fanciful and magnificent, which formed a world, whose existence depended on the life of its creator; has this mind perished?"
16025,"I passed under an arch out of that region of slabs and columns, and wandered through the open country; sometimes following the visible road, but sometimes leaving it curiously to tread across meadows where only occasional ruins bespoke the ancient presence of a forgotten road."
16026,We know that it will be ruinous to make delay.
16027,"Her mother ended with a look of contempt and covert triumph, which for a moment awakened the suspicions of Idris."
16028,"I looked at the cot, the chairs, the instruments, my neglected hat, and the yellowed straw hat of my uncle."
16029,"He had been seized and confined; he had escaped and wandered from London among the neighbouring towns, and, with frantic gestures and thrilling words, he unveiled to each their hidden fears, and gave voice to the soundless thought they dared not syllable."
16030,But I am content to die.
16031,"In a second I was through, and had my right knee and shoulder against a hall door which was visibly opening inward."
16032,"My distance from the moon was comparatively trifling, while the labor required by the condenser was diminished not at all, and I could discover no indication whatever of a decreasing rarity in the air."
16033,"After pressing Valdemar's hand, I took these gentlemen aside, and obtained from them a minute account of the patient's condition."
16034,"After days and nights of incredible labour and fatigue, I succeeded in discovering the cause of generation and life; nay, more, I became myself capable of bestowing animation upon lifeless matter."
16035,Anger made no part of his emotion.
16036,"It appeared to me indeed I was quite confident of the fact I could not be mistaken no I had, for some moments, carefully and anxiously observed the motions of my Diana I say that I could not be mistaken Diana smelt a rat At once I called Pompey's attention to the subject, and he he agreed with me."
16037,"The worldly reason, however, assigned for this singular proceeding, was one which I did not feel at liberty to dispute."
16038,"It was called, she said, ""The Esoteric Order of Dagon"", and was undoubtedly a debased, quasi pagan thing imported from the East a century before, at a time when the Innsmouth fisheries seemed to be going barren."
16039,Guess they must die of looking in the glass Animals hate 'em they used to have lots of horse trouble before autos came in.
16040,It extends to the uttermost ends of the earth.
16041,And here let me pause to insinuate a question.
16042,"Their croaking, baying voices, clearly used for articulate speech, held all the dark shades of expression which their staring faces lacked."
16043,"And sometimes at sunset I would climb the long hilly street to the citadel and the open place, and look down upon Aira, the magic city of marble and beryl, splendid in a robe of golden flame."
16044,"But that would be a cruel kindness, and I dare not do it."
16045,The flag of the death's head is hoisted in all engagements.
16046,"It was the first time I had ever known Wyatt to keep from me any of his artistical secrets; but here he evidently intended to steal a march upon me, and smuggle a fine picture to New York, under my very nose; expecting me to know nothing of the matter."
16047,The focal length is feet.
16048,Raymond asked me if I would accompany him to the House that evening.
16049,"The tints of the green carpet faded; and, one by one, the ruby red asphodels withered away; and there sprang up, in place of them, ten by ten, dark, eye like violets, that writhed uneasily and were ever encumbered with dew."
16050,"The characters along the base were equally baffling; and no member present, despite a representation of half the world's expert learning in this field, could form the least notion of even their remotest linguistic kinship."
16051,"On the left the creek threaded countryside was nearer, the narrow road to Ipswich gleaming white in the moonlight."
16052,"Our enemy, like the Calamity of Homer, trod our hearts, and no sound was echoed from her steps With ills the land is rife, with ills the sea, Diseases haunt our frail humanity, Through noon, through night, on casual wing they glide, Silent, a voice the power all wise denied."
16053,To day's Sunday isn't it?
16054,"The old porpoise, as I opened the drawing room door, was sitting with his feet upon the mantel piece, and a bumper of port in his paw, making strenuous efforts to accomplish the ditty."
16055,"He grew sterner of face, but never elderly."
16056,"Anything my friend may have said or written to the contrary must be erroneous, for I am no man of strength to risk the unmentionable warfare in unmentionable spheres by which alone one might achieve success."
16057,"When I told him who I was, he displayed some interest; for my uncle had excited his curiosity in probing his strange dreams, yet had never explained the reason for the study."
16058,"""On examining my dwelling, I found that one of the windows of the cottage had formerly occupied a part of it, but the panes had been filled up with wood."
16059,Of the original workmanship of this titanic thing I can only make conjectures.
16060,"But this feeling did not fail to die rapidly away, and thereunto succeeded horror, and dismay, and a chilling sense of utter helplessness and ruin."
16061,"""Try it by yourselves The man is surely mad but stay how long do you propose to be absent?"""
16062,"Speak not here of these griefs, dear Una mine, mine, forever now Una."
16063,But most of all did he dwell upon some mysterious blazing entity that shook and laughed and mocked at him.
16064,"Hereupon all, one after another there were nine in company, believed it their duty to pull me by the ear."
16065,"The morning air blowing freshly over the dewy plants, rushed into the heated room."
16066,"But never, O, never, should he see her in her degraded state."
16067,I began to find great difficulty in drawing my breath.
16068,"I think he was then approaching forty years of age, for there were deep lines in the face, wan and hollow cheeked, but oval and actually beautiful; and touches of grey in the thick, waving hair and small full beard which had once been of the deepest raven black."
16069,"Apart from the tendency to trance, however, my general health appeared to be good; nor could I perceive that it was at all affected by the one prevalent malady unless, indeed, an idiosyncrasy in my ordinary sleep may be looked upon as superinduced."
16070,Dreams are with us no more; but of these mysteries anon.
16071,"You are Number Two, and must look to yourself."
16072,"""Your generosity is boundless."
16073,"The riots, the combat, the massacre, were the actual events of the insurrection of Cheyte Sing, which took place in , when Hastings was put in imminent peril of his life."
16074,"I, however, who seemed to be a close friend of Balbutius, had disagreed with him; averring that I had studied deeply in the black forbidden lore, and that I believed the very old folk capable of visiting almost any nameless doom upon the town, which after all was a Roman settlement and contained a great number of our citizens."
16075,I panted to relieve this painful heart burning by some misdeed that should rouse him to a sense of my antipathy.
16076,"I moved toward the window and would have drawn aside the nondescript curtains, when with a frightened rage even greater than before the dumb lodger was upon me again; this time motioning with his head toward the door as he nervously strove to drag me thither with both hands."
16077,"Whither he has gone, I do not know; but I have gone home to the pure New England lanes up which fragrant sea winds sweep at evening."
16078,Upon due reflection I frankly admit the propriety of the explanation you suggest.
16079,"The father of Adrian yielded up the already broken sceptre of England; but I will rear the fallen plant, join its dismembered frame, and exalt it above all the flowers of the field."
16080,"This promise of a renewed lease of life turned rugged natures to melting tenderness, and by contrast filled the soft with harsh and unnatural sentiments."
16081,It lay in a remote turret of the building.
16082,Thus Novalis errs not in saying that 'we are near waking when we dream that we dream.'
16083,"Then they all sprang at him and tore him to pieces before my eyes, bearing the fragments away into that subterranean vault of fabulous abominations."
16084,"His day's work was sadly interrupted, and unless chance presently brought some rambler hither, he might have to remain all night or longer."
16085,The latter was pumped on them daily.
16086,"""Killin' sheep was kinder more fun but d'ye know, 'twan't quite satisfyin'."
16087,This was a reflection of a nature somewhat startling.
16088,"The box, whose fastenings were broken by the stroke which had unearthed it, contained many papers and objects of value; but I had eyes for one thing alone."
16089,"The next step is to advertise, after some such fashion as this, in the principal business six pennies of the city the pennies are eschewed as not ""respectable"" and as demanding payment for all advertisements in advance."
16090,Our conversation was necessarily limited.
16091,"I ordered her to bring my breakfast to my room, and was again left alone yet still I could make no resolve, but only thought that I might write a note to my father to beg his permission to pay a visit to a relation who lived about thirty miles off, and who had before invited me to her house, but I had refused for then I could not quit my suffering father."
16092,"In speaking of the air, I referred only to the earth; but the general proposition has reference to impulses upon the ether which, since it pervades, and alone pervades all space, is thus the great medium of creation."
16093,We experienced no more assaults; and by night and day we continued our labours unimpeded.
16094,"I must except, however, Wyatt and his sisters, who behaved stiffly, and, I could not help thinking, uncourteously to the rest of the party."
16095,Of their faces and forms I dare not speak in detail; for the mere remembrance makes me grow faint.
16096,In another column it was stated that no trace of the missing child Ladislas Wolejko had been found.
16097,"Far gone, was Obed . . ."
16098,"The two particulars in question are these: the arms on the golden locket about the creature's neck were the Jermyn arms, and the jocose suggestion of M. Verhaeren about a certain resemblance as connected with the shrivelled face applied with vivid, ghastly, and unnatural horror to none other than the sensitive Arthur Jermyn, great great great grandson of Sir Wade Jermyn and an unknown wife."
16099,"I cannot depart without your forgiveness and I must endeavour to gain it, or I must despair."
16100,"But since the murderer has been discovered "" ""The murderer discovered Good God how can that be? who could attempt to pursue him?"
16101,"But it was a hideous proof, because I knew from old papers that that watch had been buried with my great great great great grandfather in ."
16102,"For my part, I am by no means sure that a pumpkin pie a la Desoulieres would not have been very capital eating indeed"" ""You astonish me"" said I; and I looked inquisitively at Monsieur Maillard."
16103,"I read these words with devouring eyes; I kissed them, wept over them and exclaimed, ""He will love me"" My aunt would not undertake so long a journey, and in a fortnight we had another letter from my father, it was dated Edinburgh: he wrote that he should be with us in three days."
16104,But sleep did not afford me respite from thought and misery; my dreams presented a thousand objects that scared me.
16105,"""Perhaps so,"" said I; ""but, Legrand, I fear you are no artist."
16106,It is my firm intention to cut the shop.
16107,But in Clerval I saw the image of my former self; he was inquisitive and anxious to gain experience and instruction.
16108,At first these agonizing plaints filled me with intolerable compassion.
16109,I think I had a family then though the details are very uncertain and I know there were many servants.
16110,The news reached Felix and roused him from his dream of pleasure.
16111,"They ate plentifully of fruit and red berries, and marked not the passing of time, but many years must have slipped away."
16112,"I started up a knife was in my grasp; I made a plunge at his raised right arm, and inflicted a deep, wide wound in his hand."
16113,"And since we see clearly that the endowment of matter with vitality is a principle indeed, as far as our judgments extend, the leading principle in the operations of Deity, it is scarcely logical to imagine it confined to the regions of the minute, where we daily trace it, and not extending to those of the august."
16114,"He had seen so many customs and witnessed so great a variety of moral creeds that he had been obliged to form an independant one for himself which had no relation to the peculiar notions of any one country: his early prejudices of course influenced his judgement in the formation of his principles, and some raw colledge ideas were strangely mingled with the deepest deductions of his penetrating mind."
16115,"Such things, when they happen singly, affect only the immediate parties; but the prosperity of the nation was now shaken by frequent and extensive losses."
16116,"The description of the wings of the man bat, on page , is but a literal copy of Peter Wilkins' account of the wings of his flying islanders."
16117,"""His attempts at getting on have been mere abortions, and his circumgyratory proceedings a palpable failure."
16118,"Others, guided by this manuscript if it shall ever be found, must unfold the mysteries at which I can only hint."
16119,"Plainly visible across the intervening water on account of their enormous size, were an array of bas reliefs whose subjects would have excited the envy of a Doré."
16120,Many things I read surpassed my understanding and experience.
16121,"Certainly, the terror of a deserted house swells in geometrical rather than arithmetical progression as houses multiply to form a city of stark desolation."
16122,"She was freighted with cotton wool and oil, from the Lachadive islands."
16123,"If I were alone, would he not at times force his abhorred presence on me to remind me of my task or to contemplate its progress?"
16124,"In another instant, however, matters were reversed; for those murderous claws had locked themselves tightly around his own throat, while the wrinkled face was twisted with insane fury."
16125,"It was during an access of this kind that I suddenly left my home, and bending my steps towards the near Alpine valleys, sought in the magnificence, the eternity of such scenes, to forget myself and my ephemeral, because human, sorrows."
16126,You have loved me; I adored you.
16127,Gradually a calming of the wind and dispersal of the unusual darkness told of the storm's passing.
16128,Circumstances had called me to London; here I heard talk that symptoms of the plague had occurred in hospitals of that city.
16129,"We were no vulgar ghouls, but worked only under certain conditions of mood, landscape, environment, weather, season, and moonlight."
16130,"Often too, the voice to which all listened was suddenly silenced, the helping hand cold, the sympathetic eye closed, and the villagers feared still more the death that had selected a choice victim, shivering in dust the heart that had beat for them, reducing to incommunicable annihilation the mind for ever occupied with projects for their welfare."
16131,But the action produced an effect altogether unanticipated.
16132,"But this is a point, it appears, somewhat above or beneath the understanding of the Prefect."
16133,"When I had concluded my narration I said, ""This is the being whom I accuse and for whose seizure and punishment I call upon you to exert your whole power."
16134,"I heard of the slothful Asiatics, of the stupendous genius and mental activity of the Grecians, of the wars and wonderful virtue of the early Romans of their subsequent degenerating of the decline of that mighty empire, of chivalry, Christianity, and kings."
16135,"It was solely, therefore, on account of having been misinformed, that Mr. Bullet head found himself in Alex suppose we call it Nopolis, 'for short' but, as he did find himself there, he determined to keep up his character for obst for firmness, and remain."
16136,"I was glad to get out of that bus, and at once proceeded to check my valise in the shabby hotel lobby."
16137,Inspector Legrasse was scarcely prepared for the sensation which his offering created.
16138,"Flowers, the children of the spring, adorned her garden and casements; in the midst of lowliness there was an air of elegance which spoke the graceful taste of the inmate."
16139,"It's Man Fred, I say, and not at all by any means Man Friday."""
16140,"I approached the shore, my father held the boat, I leapt lightly out, and in a moment was in his arms."
16141,"I cherished hope, it is true, but it vanished when I beheld my person reflected in water or my shadow in the moonshine, even as that frail image and that inconstant shade."
16142,Am I not the most miserable worm that crawls?
16143,During the winter of officials of the Federal government made a strange and secret investigation of certain conditions in the ancient Massachusetts seaport of Innsmouth.
16144,"Its immense weight caused an unusually sharp grating sound, as it moved upon its hinges."
16145,"Those writers who have imagined a reign of peace and happiness on earth, have generally described a rural country, where each small township was directed by the elders and wise men."
16146,They were impatient and angry in the midst of terror.
16147,"When one of the things began to waddle and edge away, he turned quickly to stop it; so that the suddenness of his motion dislodged the waxen mask from what should have been his head."
16148,Perdita had permitted us to take Clara back with us to Windsor; and she and my two lovely infants were perpetual sources of interest and amusement.
16149,"Would to God that I had never beheld them, or that, having done so, I had died The shutting of a door disturbed me, and, looking up, I found that my cousin had departed from the chamber."
16150,"His nose remained buried in the mass of flesh which enveloped his round, full, and purple face; and his thick upper lip rested upon the still thicker one beneath with an air of complacent self satisfaction, much heightened by the owner's habit of licking them at intervals."
16151,"From fifteen to twenty, not a day passed in which he did not promise to cut me off with a shilling."
16152,"""Oh, oh, my Gawd, that haff face that haff face on top of it . . ."
16153,"He found the spectral gossip of the town much diminished, and it is indeed a fact that notwithstanding certain reports of a ghostly tittering in the deserted house which lasted almost as long as that edifice itself no fresh appearances either of old Keziah or of Brown Jenkin have been muttered of since Gilman's death."
16154,"When I say proficiency, I mean that perfection in the game which includes a comprehension of all the sources whence legitimate advantage may be derived."
16155,You say that you have lost Raymond.
16156,"Timidity, which in her had almost amounted to awkwardness, was exchanged for a graceful decision of manner; frankness, instead of reserve, characterized her physiognomy; and her voice was attuned to thrilling softness."
16157,"The man was a fool, you see."
16158,"My friend and I had both been educated in one school, or rather I was his pupil in the opinion, that steady adherence to principle was the only road to honour; a ceaseless observance of the laws of general utility, the only conscientious aim of human ambition."
16159,"Mebbe ye'd like to a ben me in them days, when I seed things at night aout to sea from the cupalo top o' my haouse."
16160,"I dug eagerly, and now and then caught myself actually looking, with something that very much resembled expectation, for the fancied treasure, the vision of which had demented my unfortunate companion."
16161,"I sympathized with and partly understood them, but I was unformed in mind; I was dependent on none and related to none."
16162,"The Italian believes it the voice of a Russian, but 'has never conversed with a native of Russia.'"
16163,"But the shadow was vague, and formless, and indefinite, and was the shadow neither of man nor of God neither God of Greece, nor God of Chaldaea, nor any Egyptian God."
16164,"He had been with me a fellow student at C University, where we were very much together."
16165,"While the rest of the company, in confused murmur, which grew louder and louder, gave voice to their many fears."
16166,The good people of Paris might have heard of me no more.
16167,"I saw when I staggered to my feet that the amorphous flute player had rolled out of sight, but that two of the beasts were patiently standing by."
16168,"The cold was intense, and obliged me to wrap up closely in an overcoat."
16169,"You know how wilful your poor, misery stricken sister is."
16170,"""In respect to the insinuations levelled at Beauvais, you will be willing to dismiss them in a breath."
16171,"""Two very decided failures, of late those of Mr. Henson and Sir George Cayley had much weakened the public interest in the subject of aerial navigation."
16172,"Yet when she died Nay, then I was not miserable."
16173,"Above all, I am known."
16174,For a long time he would eat nothing but thistles; but of this idea we soon cured him by insisting upon his eating nothing else.
16175,"Over two hours must have passed before I reached what seemed to be my goal, a venerable ivied castle in a thickly wooded park; maddeningly familiar, yet full of perplexing strangeness to me."
16176,He places his head upon the pillow.
16177,"It was the Yuletide, and I had come at last to the ancient sea town where my people had dwelt and kept festival in the elder time when festival was forbidden; where also they had commanded their sons to keep festival once every century, that the memory of primal secrets might not be forgotten."
16178,I say that these which are the laws of mesmerism in its general features it would be supererogation to demonstrate; nor shall I inflict upon my readers so needless a demonstration; to day.
16179,"Not that the spirit of each rapid passion failed, at any time, to throw its own distinct image upon the mirror of that face but that the mirror, mirror like, retained no vestige of the passion, when the passion had departed."
16180,"On one side I could view the entire city as it sloped from the plaza down to the old river bank; on the other side, in startling proximity, I was confronted by the richly ornate and perfectly preserved facade of a great building, evidently a temple, hollowed from the solid rock."
16181,ff ff ff FATHER FATHER YOG SOTHOTH . .
16182,"Our little town of Windsor, in which the survivors from the neighbouring counties were chiefly assembled, wore a melancholy aspect."
16183,Even De L'Omelette pronounced it bien comme il faut.
16184,"After uncovering the entire surface, which consisted of three immense granite slabs, we stepped back some distance to survey the charnel scene; and Warren appeared to make some mental calculations."
16185,"Heretofore we have been friends lovers let us not become enemies, mutual spies."
16186,"""And wherefore was it glorious?"
16187,"Whilst I had hitherto considered this but a natural attribute of a family of short lived men, I afterward pondered long upon these premature deaths, and began to connect them with the wanderings of the old man, who often spoke of a curse which for centuries had prevented the lives of the holders of my title from much exceeding the span of thirty two years."
16188,"Modern discoveries, indeed, in what may be termed ethical magnetism or magnetoesthetics, render it probable that the most natural, and, consequently, the truest and most intense of the human affections are those which arise in the heart as if by electric sympathy in a word, that the brightest and most enduring of the psychal fetters are those which are riveted by a glance."
16189,"In shutting up the box no particular order is observed, except that the folding doors are always closed before the drawer."
16190,With painful earnestness he questioned me concerning her prophecies with regard to him.
16191,"I went also to act in conformity with Adrian's plans, which was to congregate in masses what remained of the population; for he possessed the conviction that it was only through the benevolent and social virtues that any safety was to be hoped for the remnant of mankind."
16192,"And they were strange, because they had come as dark furtive folk from opiate southern gardens of orchids, and spoken another tongue before they learnt the tongue of the blue eyed fishers."
16193,It is of this loot in particular that I must not speak thank God I had the courage to destroy it long before I thought of destroying myself.
16194,Most assuredly we must not refer the unlife like appearances to inability for all the rest of Maelzel's automata are evidence of his full ability to copy the motions and peculiarities of life with the most wonderful exactitude.
16195,"Years of the Titans were recalled, but the host grew timid when he spoke of the dim first age of chaos before the gods or even the Elder Ones were born, and when only the other gods came to dance on the peak of Hatheg Kla in the stony desert near Ulthar, beyond the river Skai."
16196,"He could distinguish no words, yet the tone was haunting and unmistakable."
16197,"This is probably true, but I have no distinct memory of it."
16198,It had divided the serge of the robe.
16199,"""Do not let this letter disturb you; do not answer tomorrow, or the next day, or even until you come, if it will give you pain."
16200,"Legrasse for some time lent the image to Professor Webb, but at the latter's death it was returned to him and remains in his possession, where I viewed it not long ago."
16201,"I cannot tell you how he shrieked, or what vistas of unvisitable hells gleamed for a second in black eyes crazed with fright."
16202,"When I adverted to the question of their entire separation, she replied: ""Be it so One day the period will arrive; I know it, and feel it."
16203,"Under cover of the widely projecting eave these steps gave access to a door leading to the garret, or rather loft for it was lighted only by a single window to the north, and seemed to have been intended as a store room."
16204,"Its whole interior is apparently filled with wheels, pinions, levers, and other machinery, crowded very closely together, so that the eye can penetrate but a little distance into the mass."
16205,In the lower ends of these tubes are holes in which the pivots of the axis revolve.
16206,"And even far more than this, in remedy of the defective composition, each insulated member of the fraternity will suggest the identical emendation."
16207,They clung with eagerness to the hope held out that he might yet be alive.
16208,"had he not skimmed over Père Le Brun? was he not a member of the Club Vingt un? ""Si je perds,"" said he, ""je serai deux fois perdu I shall be doubly dammed voilà tout Here his Grace shrugged his shoulders."
16209,"He had been flushed and excited then, talking in a high and unnatural, though always pedantic, voice."
16210,"These pastimes were to us the most exquisite form of aesthetic expression, and we gave their details a fastidious technical care."
16211,"With the passage of time he became almost glad he had lingered, for his relics of youth and his cleavage from the world made life and sophistication seem very distant and unreal; so much so that a touch of magic and expectancy stole back into his nightly slumbers."
16212,"They found me at dawn wandering mindless near Ballylough, but what unhinged me utterly was not any of the horrors I had seen or heard before."
16213,This was a lesson which I took desperately to heart.
16214,Could it be that the dream soul inhabiting this inferior body was desperately struggling to speak things which the simple and halting tongue of dulness could not utter?
16215,"I was utterly astounded; and, for a moment, was quite at a loss what to do."
16216,I entered the cabin where lay the remains of my ill fated and admirable friend.
16217,"It then stopped, the page descended and opened the door, the lady alighted, and presented a petition to her sovereign."
16218,Elizabeth seemed happy; my tranquil demeanour contributed greatly to calm her mind.
16219,"She awaited with eagerness the return of her messenger from the palace; she listened insatiate to his account of each word, each look of the Protector; she felt bliss in this communication with her beloved, although he knew not to whom he addressed his instructions."
16220,"Of the fate of that cohort no record exists, but the town at least was saved for encyclopædias tell of the survival of Pompelo to this day, under the modern Spanish name of Pompelona. . . ."
16221,"Now, brought to this conclusion in so unequivocal a manner as we are, it is not our part, as reasoners, to reject it on account of apparent impossibilities."
16222,"Not so Idris; her first glance was for her brother; she took his hand, she kissed his eye lids, and hung over him with looks of compassion and love."
16223,"""The winter advanced, and an entire revolution of the seasons had taken place since I awoke into life."
16224,"""My son,"" said he, when we were seated, ""what is the chief end of your existence?"""
16225,"It is, nevertheless, amusing to observe that L'Etoile insists upon its point in the full belief of its furthering its general argument."
16226,Madame L'Espanaye and her daughter lived an exceedingly retired life saw no company seldom went out had little use for numerous changes of habiliment.
16227,"Sometimes I entreated my attendants to assist me in the destruction of the fiend by whom I was tormented; and at others I felt the fingers of the monster already grasping my neck, and screamed aloud with agony and terror."
16228,"""To my task,"" she continued mentally, ""my guests must not perceive the reality, either as it regards him or me."
16229,"Captain Barclay, who walked against Time, would not walk against him."
16230,"All I could do was to turn on the waning searchlight of the U , and with its aid walk up the temple steps and study the exterior carvings."
16231,"This latter print endeavors to combat that portion of the paragraph which has reference to 'drowned bodies' only, by citing some five or six instances in which the bodies of individuals known to be drowned were found floating after the lapse of less time than is insisted upon by L'Etoile."
16232,"The heart sickened at the variety of misery presented; and, when I saw a specimen of this gloomy change, my soul ached with the fear of what might befall my beloved Idris and my babes."
16233,"Perdita, wedded to an imagination, careless of what is behind the veil, whose charactery is in truth faulty and vile, Perdita has renounced me."
16234,"From his inscrutable tyranny did I at length flee, panic stricken, as from a pestilence; and to the very ends of the earth I fled in vain."
16235,"The small garrisons were drawn from the various towns and fortresses, and went to swell the main army."
16236,"Death, which had in our younger days walked the earth like ""a thief that comes in the night,"" now, rising from his subterranean vault, girt with power, with dark banner floating, came a conqueror."
16237,"The thought of nature still remained, but her character seemed to have undergone modification, there was a weird symmetry, a thrilling uniformity, a wizard propriety in these her works."
16238,"Nevertheless, what could be seen was of a nature singular and exciting."
16239,At early dawn the vessel was discovered bearing in shore; it was conjectured that it would cast anchor about five miles from land.
16240,"I would have them allow what they cannot refrain from allowing that, although temptation may have erewhile existed as great, man was never thus, at least, tempted before certainly, never thus fell."
16241,"One or two strokes of a spade upturned the blade of a large Spanish knife, and, as we dug farther, three or four loose pieces of gold and silver coin came to light."
16242,"He bore aloft a drawn dagger, and had approached, in rapid impetuosity, to within three or four feet of the retreating figure, when the latter, having attained the extremity of the velvet apartment, turned suddenly and confronted his pursuer."
16243,"The room was decorated with the busts of many of them, and he described their characters to me."
16244,"In its exercise I found a wild delight yet a delight still physical, inasmuch as the understanding had in it no part."
16245,Don't believe it don't believe a word of it.
16246,"Why when fate drove me to become this outcast from human feeling; this monster with whom none might mingle in converse and love; why had she not from that fatal and most accursed moment, shrouded me in thick mists and placed real darkness between me and my fellows so that I might never more be seen?, sic and as I passed, like a murky cloud loaded with blight, they might only perceive me by the cold chill I should cast upon them; telling them, how truly, that something unholy was near?"
16247,"And Kuranes saw that he need not tremble lest the things he knew be vanished; for even the sentries on the ramparts were the same, and still as young as he remembered them."
16248,"""In that point he is unrivalled indeed he is a perfect desperado a down right fire eater, and no mistake,"" said my friend, here dropping his voice excessively low, and thrilling me with the mystery of his tone."
16249,"The next day Blandot gave me a more expensive room on the third floor, between the apartments of an aged money lender and the room of a respectable upholsterer."
16250,"The shade of the trees fell heavily upon the water, and seemed to bury itself therein, impregnating the depths of the element with darkness."
16251,"As we heard this suggestion of baying we shuddered, remembering the tales of the peasantry; for he whom we sought had centuries before been found in this selfsame spot, torn and mangled by the claws and teeth of some unspeakable beast."
16252,"Indeed what gentleman or lady either of sense, wouldn't die, I should like to know, for a well fattened capon of the right Molucca breed, stuffed with capers and mushrooms, and served up in a salad bowl, with orange jellies en mosaiques."
16253,"Neither grief, philosophy, nor love could make Perdita think with mildness of the dereliction of Raymond."
16254,"What fiend spoke from the recesses of my soul, when amid those dim aisles, and in the silence of the night, I whispered within the ears of the holy man the syllables Morella?"
16255,"ye swilled yourselves sick, curse ye, and ye must needs blame the squire let go, you Unhand that latch I've naught for ye here "" At this point three slow and very deliberate raps shook the panels of the door, and a white foam gathered at the mouth of the frantic magician."
16256,"We proceed now with the journal, as transcribed by Mr. Forsyth from the joint MSS."
16257,I thought of huge rats and shuddered.
16258,"The birth of her daughter, embryo copy of her Raymond, filled up the measure of her content, and produced a sacred and indissoluble tie between them."
16259,God knows what I expected to find I only felt that I was digging in the grave of a man whose ghost stalked by night.
16260,"I saw unhappiness deeply impressed on his countenance, but he endeavoured to welcome me cheerfully; and, after we had exchanged our mournful greeting, would have introduced some other topic than that of our disaster, had not Ernest exclaimed, ""Good God, papa Victor says that he knows who was the murderer of poor William."""
16261,"A smoky mist, resembling that of the Indian summer, enveloped all things, and of course, added to my uncertainty."
16262,"A shudder like the swift passing of an electric shock ran through the house, when Rosse exclaimed, in answer to ""Stands Scotland where it did?"""
16263,"It would be trite and not wholly accurate to say that no human pen could describe it, but one may properly say that it could not be vividly visualised by anyone whose ideas of aspect and contour are too closely bound up with the common life forms of this planet and of the three known dimensions."
16264,"The mind flags beneath the weight of thought, and droops in the heartless intercourse of those whose sole aim is amusement."
16265,"Although they spent much time together at Windsor, the extreme youth of Adrian prevented any suspicion as to the nature of their intercourse."
16266,"The clouds become thin; an arch is formed for ever rising upwards, till, the universal cope being unveiled, the sun pours forth its rays, re animated and fed by the breeze."
16267,"The clock strikes Unable to restrain his feelings, his Grace swallows an olive."
16268,"As I turned, I dreaded what I was to see; for the scream had been in my uncle's voice, and I knew not against what menace I should have to defend him and myself."
16269,"Found in a Bottle,"" was originally published in , and it was not until many years afterwards that I became acquainted with the maps of Mercator, in which the ocean is represented as rushing, by four mouths, into the northern Polar Gulf, to be absorbed into the bowels of the earth; the Pole itself being represented by a black rock, towering to a prodigious height."
16270,"This thicket, although dense, was in the close vicinity of a public road."
16271,"The exhibiter now proceeds to open the drawer which lies beneath the cupboards at the bottom of the box for although there are apparently two drawers, there is really only one the two handles and two key holes being intended merely for ornament."
16272,"F Spencer's Faery Queen Book Canto CHAPTER XII As I was perpetually haunted by these ideas, you may imagine that the influence of Woodville's words was very temporary; and that although I did not again accuse him of unkindness, yet I soon became as unhappy as before."
16273,"He would not only have fled from the wharf, but he would not have permitted the boat to remain."
16274,"This city had remained faithful to him, after the whole nation had forsaken his cause to join the standard of Parliament and liberty."
16275,"You will here bear in mind that the arguments urged against the thicket as the scene, are applicable in chief part, only against it as the scene of an outrage committed by more than a single individual."
16276,"Each day was eagerly counted; and the inhabitants of towns, desirous to leap this dangerous interval, plunged into dissipation, and strove, by riot, and what they wished to imagine to be pleasure, to banish thought and opiate despair."
16277,"I began with light hand and gentle allurement; first exciting her curiosity, and then satisfying it in such a way as might occasion her, at the same time that she half forgot her sorrows in occupation, to find in the hours that succeeded a reaction of benevolence and toleration."
16278,"Now, Eliot, I'm what the man in the street would call fairly ""hard boiled"", but I'll confess that what I saw on the walls of that room gave me a bad turn."
16279,He told the crowd that the men were evidently trying to get to a subordinate peak which overlooked the swath at a point considerably ahead of where the shrubbery was now bending.
16280,"Matter it seemed not to be, nor ether, nor anything else conceivable by mortal mind."
16281,A strange odor loaded the breeze.
16282,"We descended from Parnassus, emerging from its many folds, and passed through Livadia on our road to Attica."
16283,"They were these: Lo 'tis a gala night Within the lonesome latter years An angel throng, bewinged, bedight In veils, and drowned in tears, Sit in a theatre, to see A play of hopes and fears, While the orchestra breathes fitfully The music of the spheres."
16284,"I paused again, and this time I made bold to seize Fortunato by an arm above the elbow."
16285,"She had at first yielded to our entreaties, but when she heard that the life of her favourite was menaced, she could no longer control her anxiety."
16286,"Yet was she woman, and pined away daily."
16287,"Forbidding me to touch the body, he first injected a drug in the wrist just beside the place his needle had punctured when injecting the embalming compound."
16288,"The teeth the teeth they were here, and there, and everywhere, and visibly and palpably before me; long, narrow, and excessively white, with the pale lips writhing about them, as in the very moment of their first terrible development."
16289,"That it was merely a gigantic piece of stone, I soon assured myself; but I was conscious of a distinct impression that its contour and position were not altogether the work of Nature."
16290,"The sun sank beneath the horizon as we landed, and as I touched the shore I felt those cares and fears revive which soon were to clasp me and cling to me forever."
16291,"The valet at once fell into the rear, and now, with hearts full to overflowing, we discoursed long and unreservedly of our love."
16292,"It was a melancholy thing to return to this spot so dear to us, as the scene of a happiness rarely before enjoyed, here to mark the extinction of our species, and trace the deep uneraseable footsteps of disease over the fertile and cherished soil."
16293,shaoutin' in Ol' Squar an' Taown Squar an' New Church Green . . .
16294,"Our museum was a blasphemous, unthinkable place, where with the satanic taste of neurotic virtuosi we had assembled an universe of terror and decay to excite our jaded sensibilities."
16295,"She had set down no rule of conduct for herself; but for her life she could not have opposed his slightest wish, or do other than acquiesce cheerfully in all his projects."
16296,"My place of refuge was constructed of wood, but so low that I could with difficulty sit upright in it."
16297,"It is likely that he felt only vexation when, in , the town council ordered him to fumigate the place with sulphur, tar, and gum camphor on account of the much discussed deaths of four persons, presumably caused by the then diminishing fever epidemic."
16298,"The wind arose; the sea roared; and, as with the mighty shock of an earthquake, it split and cracked with a tremendous and overwhelming sound."
16299,Why is it folly to suppose that the murder was committed at any given period of the day?
16300,"Considering this topography, we had finally concluded that the daemon must have come by way of Cone Mountain, a wooded southern prolongation of which ran to within a short distance of the westernmost spur of Tempest Mountain."
16301,"There was a primness, not to say stiffness, in his carriage a degree of measured, and, if I may so express it, of rectangular precision, attending his every movement, which, observed in a more diminutive figure, would have had the least little savor in the world, of affectation, pomposity or constraint, but which noticed in a gentleman of his undoubted dimensions, was readily placed to the account of reserve, hauteur of a commendable sense, in short, of what is due to the dignity of colossal proportion."
16302,"Or, when the dun clouds thickly veil the sky, while exhaustless stores of rain are poured down, until, the dank earth refusing to imbibe the superabundant moisture, it lies in pools on the surface; when the torch of day seems like a meteor, to be quenched; who has not seen the cloud stirring north arise, the streaked blue appear, and soon an opening made in the vapours in the eye of the wind, through which the bright azure shines?"
16303,From the manner of gathering up a trick he judges whether the person taking it can make another in the suit.
16304,"What deep and sacred emotions are excited in a father's bosom, when he first becomes convinced that his love for his child is not a mere instinct, but worthily bestowed, and that others, less akin, participate his approbation It was supreme happiness to Idris and myself, to find that the frankness which Alfred's open brow indicated, the intelligence of his eyes, the tempered sensibility of his tones, were not delusions, but indications of talents and virtues, which would ""grow with his growth, and strengthen with his strength."""
16305,"This year the horror was very great, for the people knew that the wrath of the very old folk was upon Pompelo."
16306,"God rest them, if there be any rest in the universe."
16307,"I must not permit you to be acquainted with the extent of my delusion, lest you despise me; although, believe me, a wish to appear before you, not vanquished, but as a conqueror, inspired me during my wordy war."""
16308,"There is talk of apportioning Randolph Carter's estate among his heirs, but I shall stand firmly against this course because I do not believe he is dead."
16309,"Shaking pathetically, the old man forced me into a chair whilst he sank into another, beside which his viol and bow lay carelessly on the floor."
16310,But I am not wholly sorry; either for this or for the loss in undreamable abysses of the closely written sheets which alone could have explained the music of Erich Zann.
16311,"These speculations were rife among us; yet not the less we proceeded in our daily occupations, and our plans, whose accomplishment demanded the lapse of many years."
16312,"I must get away from evil shadowed Innsmouth and accordingly I began to test my cramped, wearied powers of locomotion."
16313,"Hypocritical fiend If he whom you mourn still lived, still would he be the object, again would he become the prey, of your accursed vengeance."
16314,"Beyond these things he seemed to know nothing, nor could the expert questioning of his interrogators bring out a single additional fact."
16315,"Look here, do you know the whole North End once had a set of tunnels that kept certain people in touch with each other's houses, and the burying ground, and the sea?"
16316,"Tears also gushed from the eyes of Clerval, as he read the account of my misfortune."
16317,"But these gave place to a heavy swell; I felt sick and hardly able to hold the rudder, when suddenly I saw a line of high land towards the south."
16318,"But the under surfaces of the huge masses of agitated vapor, as well as all terrestrial objects immediately around us, were glowing in the unnatural light of a faintly luminous and distinctly visible gaseous exhalation which hung about and enshrouded the mansion."
16319,"I knew that he had been lying awake ever since the first slight noise, when he had turned in the bed."
16320,"Aries Tottle's mode, in a word, was based on noumena; Hog's on phenomena."
16321,It was in the newspaper that she saw the advertisement for the design for a national gallery.
16322,The canoe falls into the lesser channel and approaches the gate.
16323,"Will you think of Raymond less at Windsor, the scene of your early happiness?"
16324,"Subsequently many went to visit Kalos, and indeed noticed the pallor of his face; but there was about him a happy serenity which made his glance more magical than the glance of Musides who was clearly distracted with anxiety, and who pushed aside all the slaves in his eagerness to feed and wait upon his friend with his own hands."
16325,"And at last I resolved to scale that tower, fall though I might; since it were better to glimpse the sky and perish, than to live without ever beholding day."
16326,"That she did meet some companion, and proceed with him across the river, reaching the Barrière du Roule at so late an hour as three o'clock in the afternoon, is known."
16327,"""Well, here's yer stuff,"" announced Sheehan jovially as a tray of bottles and glasses was wheeled into the room."
16328,"""I fear that I speak in a constrained manner: my heart is overflowing with the ardent desire I have of bringing calm once more to your thoughts and looks; but I fear to aggravate your grief, or to raise that in you which is death to me, anger and distaste."
16329,His wisdom guided all.
16330,"Raymond staggered forth from this scene, as a man might do, who had been just put to the torture, and looked forward to when it would be again inflicted."
16331,Mr. Czanek did not like to wait so long in the dark in such a place.
16332,"And methinks, sweet Una, even our slumbering sense of the forced and of the far fetched might have arrested us here."
16333,"His mind was not Prussian, but given to imaginings and speculations which have no value."
16334,"Raymond saw the danger; he was willing to save his troops from the crime of disobedience; for he knew, that contention once begun between the commander and his army, each act and word added to the weakness of the former, and bestowed power on the latter."
16335,"Travelling on land has been repeatedly accomplished at the rate of thirty miles per hour, and indeed a much greater speed may be anticipated."
16336,"To the right of this compartment, however, that is to say the spectators' right a small division, six inches wide, and filled with machinery, is partitioned off."
16337,Then a strong desire to lapse into insensibility.
16338,To the right arise a chain of lofty hills rudely and luxuriantly wooded.
16339,"I was galled, too, by the rumor touching a relationship, which had grown current in the upper forms."
16340,"Kadath in the cold waste hath known Them, and what man knows Kadath?"
16341,"Moreover, he had in the past secretly studied the theory of reanimation to some extent under West."
16342,"As I mentioned the word ""remuneration,"" Mr. Crab first opened his eyes, and then his mouth, to quite a remarkable extent; causing his personal appearance to resemble that of a highly agitated elderly duck in the act of quacking; and in this condition he remained, ever and anon pressing his hands tightly to his forehead, as if in a state of desperate bewilderment until I had nearly made an end of what I had to say."
16343,"In this, I succeeded to a miracle; and to every question or suggestion found myself at liberty to reply in my most frog like and sepulchral tones with some passage from the tragedy any portion of which, as I soon took great pleasure in observing, would apply equally well to any particular subject."
16344,"The rudder is now at the barge office."""
16345,"Their social contacts grew fewer and fewer, till at last they took to intermarrying with the numerous menial class about the estate."
16346,"What is true of relation of form and quantity is often grossly false in regard to morals, for example."
16347,"Would it be a rash wager a wager of one thousand to one that a day never passed over the heads of these boys without finding at least one of them ensconced in the umbrageous hall, and enthroned upon its natural throne?"
16348,And before Goya you have to go back to the mediaeval chaps who did the gargoyles and chimaeras on Notre Dame and Mont Saint Michel.
16349,"In his dream he had heard a scratching and gnawing in the partitions, and thought that someone fumbled clumsily at the latch."
16350,"Such is human nature, that beauty and deformity are often closely linked."
16351,"Yet, although unhappy, he is not so utterly occupied by his own misery but that he interests himself deeply in the projects of others."
16352,"Thus, ordinarily, should it have appeared, only after long pressure from Azrael's hand."
16353,"Horrible beyond conception was the change which had taken place in my best friend, Crawford Tillinghast."
16354,Let him take them back; without his love they are nothing to me.
16355,"Twenty years afterward, the two returned to France, in the persuasion that time had so greatly altered the lady's appearance that her friends would be unable to recognize her."
16356,The articles found in the thicket were fully identified by the relatives of Marie.
16357,"The living man was clutching a horrible stone idol of unknown origin, about a foot in height, regarding whose nature authorities at Sydney University, the Royal Society, and the Museum in College Street all profess complete bafflement, and which the survivor says he found in the cabin of the yacht, in a small carved shrine of common pattern."
16358,"If I say that my somewhat extravagant imagination yielded simultaneous pictures of an octopus, a dragon, and a human caricature, I shall not be unfaithful to the spirit of the thing."
16359,"""Walakea he shewed Obed a lot o' rites an' incantations as had to do with the sea things, an' let him see some o' the folks in the village as had changed a lot from human shape."
16360,"It must, it shall be undertaken to day, and yet we put it off until to morrow, and why?"
16361,I will proceed with my tale.
16362,In history of these regions I met with a ray from the Future.
16363,"On this occasion a man of great research in natural philosophy was with us, and excited by this catastrophe, he entered on the explanation of a theory which he had formed on the subject of electricity and galvanism, which was at once new and astonishing to me."
16364,Her voice was musical but unlike that of either of my friends.
16365,"By the time that it wanted only three minutes to noon, the droll object in question was perceived to be a very diminutive foreign looking young man."
16366,"""Hey, yew, why dun't ye say somethin'?"
16367,"This is the idea of a man long resident in Paris a public man and one whose walks to and fro in the city, have been mostly limited to the vicinity of the public offices."
16368,"Yes, it was of Death I spoke."
16369,"The very idea was generous and noble, but, beyond this, his unpretending manner, his entire want of the assumption of a virtue, rendered his act ten times more touching."
16370,"The cottage of my protectors had been the only school in which I had studied human nature, but this book developed new and mightier scenes of action."
16371,"You can blast my other passions, but revenge remains revenge, henceforth dearer than light or food I may die, but first you, my tyrant and tormentor, shall curse the sun that gazes on your misery."
16372,"Thou wast curiously scented, and labelled as per invoice."
16373,"""The whole of this paragraph must now appear a tissue of inconsequence and incoherence."
16374,"When he had gone, my friend entered into some explanations."
16375,"From the top of the mound, I looked far round all was silent and deserted."
16376,"For many months Woodville had in vain endeavoured to cast off this terrible remembrance; it still hung on him untill memory was too great a burthen for his loaded soul, but when on horseback the spell that seemingly held him to this idea was snapt; then if he thought of his lost bride he pictured her radiant in beauty; he could hear her voice, and fancy her ""a sylvan Huntress by his side,"" while his eyes brightened as he thought he gazed on her cherished form."
16377,"Here, after encircling the tree, it passed on a little to the north of east, leaving the tulip tree some twenty feet to the south, and making no decided alteration in its course until it came near the midway between the eastern and western boundaries of the valley."
16378,"It was a child singing a merry, lightsome air; there was no other sound."
16379,"Little attention had been paid to the decora of what is technically called keeping, or to the proprieties of nationality."
16380,"It was long before he was restored, and I often thought that life was entirely extinct."
16381,"Mothers, kiss you last husbands, protectors no more, lead on the partners of your death Come, O come while the dear ones are yet in sight, for soon they will pass away, and we never never shall join them more."""
16382,"A robin red breast dropt from the frosty branches of the trees, upon the congealed rivulet; its panting breast and half closed eyes shewed that it was dying: a hawk appeared in the air; sudden fear seized the little creature; it exerted its last strength, throwing itself on its back, raising its talons in impotent defence against its powerful enemy."
16383,"This brings about a training of birds, to serve the purpose of carrier pigeons between them."
16384,"Yet I must cling to it; perhaps it will kill me soon, and thus perform a thankful office."""
16385,The fear of so mighty a calamity as the loss of our adored infant made the current of my blood pause with chilly horror; but the remembrance of the mother restored my presence of mind.
16386,"He submitted to be away from her, because she commanded this submission; but for her influence, he would have declared his attachment before all England, and resisted, with unshaken constancy, his mother's opposition."
16387,"There was only one bedstead; and from this the bed had been removed, and thrown into the middle of the floor."
16388,"Memory brought madness with it, and when I thought of what had passed, a real insanity possessed me; sometimes I was furious and burnt with rage, sometimes low and despondent."
16389,"I looked round on the audience; the females were mostly of the lower classes, but the men were of all ranks, come hither to forget awhile the protracted scenes of wretchedness, which awaited them at their miserable homes."
16390,"The wind fanned the fire, and the cottage was quickly enveloped by the flames, which clung to it and licked it with their forked and destroying tongues."
16391,"The tracks on the flooring were certainly vastly unlike the average prints of a rat, but even Choynski and Desrochers would not admit that they were like the prints of four tiny human hands."
16392,"You have been tutored and refined by books and retirement from the world, and you are therefore somewhat fastidious; but this only renders you the more fit to appreciate the extraordinary merits of this wonderful man."
16393,"He was now all love, all softness; and when I raised my eyes in wonder at him as he spoke the smile on his lips told me that his heart was possessed by the gentlest passions."
16394,"An ample estate was allotted to them, and they took the first rank among the peers of Great Britain."
16395,"In the meantime, it was observed by all on board, that he avoided her in the most pointed manner, and, for the most part, shut himself up alone in his state room, where, in fact, he might have been said to live altogether, leaving his wife at full liberty to amuse herself as she thought best, in the public society of the main cabin."
16396,"Glancing upward at the clock on the mantel piece, for I felt too drowsy to take out my watch, I had the pleasure to find that I had still twenty five minutes to spare."
16397,"Earl Sawyer now took the telescope and reported the three figures as standing on the topmost ridge, virtually level with the altar stone but at a considerable distance from it."
16398,"I wished for no friend, no sympathy."
16399,"Here your countenance brightened up, and, perceiving your lips move, I could not doubt that you murmured the word 'stereotomy,' a term very affectedly applied to this species of pavement."
16400,"To my mind rushed fragments of a passage in Joseph Glanvill which has quoted with tremendous effect "" the vastness, profundity, and unsearchableness of His works, which have a depth in them greater than the well of Democritus."""
16401,"That cult would never die till the stars came right again, and the secret priests would take great Cthulhu from His tomb to revive His subjects and resume His rule of earth."
16402,"And when the development of her understanding disclosed the true nature of this intercourse to her, her affections were already engaged to her friend, and all she feared was lest other attractions and fickleness might make him break his infant vows."
16403,"The result of decomposition is the generation of gas, distending the cellular tissues and all the cavities, and giving the puffed appearance which is so horrible."
16404,"His countenance, I thought, wore a mingled expression of low cunning and perplexity."
16405,"At the first dawn of the morning we closed all the messy shutters of our old building; lighting a couple of tapers which, strongly perfumed, threw out only the ghastliest and feeblest of rays."
16406,"He never sported, but spent hours in watching the tribes of lovely and almost tame animals with which it was stocked, and ordered that greater care should be taken of them than ever."
16407,In the mean time Raymond was eloquent.
16408,"There are scoundrels in this world, I remembered with a sigh, who will not scruple to take unfair opportunities with even a next door neighbor, and this remark is from Epictetus it is precisely at that time when men are most anxious to throw off the burden of their own calamities that they feel the least desirous of relieving them in others."
16409,With his permission my mother prevailed on her rustic guardians to yield their charge to her.
16410,"""And those who do not work for posterity; or working, as may be my case, will not be known by it; yet they, believe me, have also their duties."
16411,"Advance avail thyself of the gift, thou and thy comrades; and in the drama you are about to act, do not disgrace those who taught you to enter on the stage, and to pronounce becomingly the parts assigned to you May your progress be uninterrupted and secure; born during the spring tide of the hopes of man, may you lead up the summer to which no winter may succeed See an ingenious Essay, entitled, ""The Mythological Astronomy of the Ancients Demonstrated,"" by Mackey, a shoemaker, of Norwich printed in ."
16412,"""Looking beyond these words, for a short distance, we again see the combination;, and employ it by way of termination to what immediately precedes."
16413,But upon this subject I cannot bear to dilate.
16414,"I no longer despair, but look on all around me with placid affection."
16415,"Upon the capture of Pavia by Charlemagne in , the skull was seized from the tottering Desiderius and carried in the train of the Frankish conqueror."
16416,"All in vain; because Death, in approaching him had stalked with his black shadow before him, and enveloped the victim."
16417,"""Who pe you,"" he asked, ""und what der teuffel you pe do dare?"""
16418,"Members of the Royal Anthropological Institute burned the thing and threw the locket into a well, and some of them do not admit that Arthur Jermyn ever existed."
16419,"""The poem over the signature 'Snob' is, we find, attracting universal commendation, and, we are constrained to say, deserves, if possible, even more applause than it has received."
16420,"""Yes have changed very much, as you see"" chimed in the whole company at once."
16421,"While I spoke, there came a marked change over the countenance of the sleep waker."
16422,"Have not actors wept, as they pourtrayed imagined passion?"
16423,"Te angel ab not te wing, and I am te Angel ov te Odd."" ""And your business with me at present is is"" ""My pizzness"" ejaculated the thing, ""vy vat a low bred buppy you mos pe vor to ask a gentleman und an angel apout his pizziness"" This language was rather more than I could bear, even from an angel; so, plucking up courage, I seized a salt cellar which lay within reach, and hurled it at the head of the intruder."
16424,"But the haughty Ex Queen thought as Octavius Caesar and Mark Antony, We could not stall together In the whole world."
16425,"It was a low, dull, quick sound much such a sound as a watch makes when enveloped in cotton."
16426,"As consciousness departed he heard the faint, shrill tittering of the fanged, rat like abnormality."
16427,It was not to be borne.
16428,"""During the ensuing days, while the preparations were going forward for the escape of the merchant, the zeal of Felix was warmed by several letters that he received from this lovely girl, who found means to express her thoughts in the language of her lover by the aid of an old man, a servant of her father who understood French."
16429,"In cloud ships the gods are wont to travel, and wise cotters have legends that keep them from certain high peaks at night when it is cloudy, for the gods are not lenient as of old."
16430,"The late setting of the moon, and the extreme caution I was obliged to use in this my third expedition, consumed so much time, that something like a qualm of fear came over me when I perceived dark night yield to twilight."
16431,"I know suthin' awful's abaout, an' feel my time is nigh, though only Gawd knows jest what it is."
16432,"Christchurch Cemetery was the scene of a terrible killing; a watchman having been clawed to death in a manner not only too hideous for description, but raising a doubt as to the human agency of the deed."
16433,"At another, I resolved to dig a grave for it in the floor of the cellar."
16434,"I as yet suffered no bodily inconvenience, breathing with great freedom, and feeling no pain whatever in the head."
16435,"Having found the wine, I recrossed the chamber, and poured out a gobletful, which I held to the lips of the fainting lady."
16436,"When we arrived at Kishan, we learnt, that on hearing of the advance of Lord Raymond and his detachment, the Turkish army had retreated from Rodosto; but meeting with a reinforcement, they had re trod their steps."
16437,"He could have endured poverty, and while this distress had been the meed of his virtue, he gloried in it; but the ingratitude of the Turk and the loss of his beloved Safie were misfortunes more bitter and irreparable."
16438,"But he could not play to another his weird harmonies, and could not bear hearing them from another; nor could he bear having anything in his room touched by another."
16439,It would help my shaky nerves if I could dismiss what I now have to think of the air and the sky about and above me.
16440,The notes in question were those descriptive of the dreams of various persons covering the same period as that in which young Wilcox had had his strange visitations.
16441,"I quitted my seat, and walked on, although the darkness and storm increased every minute, and the thunder burst with a terrific crash over my head."
16442,"""How was it possible,"" I asked, ""that you should know the man to be a sailor, and belonging to a Maltese vessel?"" ""I do not know it,"" said Dupin."
16443,"Had it not been for my old servant Hiram, I should have by this time become quite convinced of my madness."
16444,"Lights now appeared to guide us; and a long suite of splendid rooms illuminated, made us still more wonder."
16445,Raymond's eyes were fixed on the city.
16446,I have described myself as always having been imbued with a fervent longing to penetrate the secrets of nature.
16447,"We were told this when young, and taught to look forward to it as an event that would certainly take place."
16448,"In general, there is no alternative but experiment directed by probabilities of every tongue known to him who attempts the solution, until the true one be attained."
16449,"""Well, a kid then pretty much the same thing."""
16450,"This building stood on the steep river bluff near a bridge and an open confluence of streets which I took to be the earliest civic centre, displaced after the Revolution by the present Town Square."
16451,"I tell you I am on the very verge of insanity; why, cruel girl, do you drive me on: you will repent and I shall die."""
16452,"But evil things, in robes of sorrow, Assailed the monarch's high estate; Ah, let us mourn, for never morrow Shall dawn upon him, desolate And, round about his home, the glory That blushed and bloomed Is but a dim remembered story Of the old time entombed."
16453,"But, for myself, the Earth's records had taught me to look for widest ruin as the price of highest civilization."
16454,"His eyes, vacant in expression, regarded only the wall."
16455,"A snowy white and gauze like drapery seemed to be nearly the sole covering to her delicate form; but the mid summer and midnight air was hot, sullen, and still, and no motion in the statue like form itself, stirred even the folds of that raiment of very vapor which hung around it as the heavy marble hangs around the Niobe."
16456,"Her mild eyes seemed incapable of any severity or guile, and yet she has committed a murder."""
16457,"In the matter of eyes, also, my acquaintance was pre eminently endowed."
16458,"You will, therefore, please your majesty, be so good as to take the will for the deed for by no manner of means either can I or will I swallow another drop least of all a drop of that villainous bilge water that answers to the hall of 'Black Strap.'"""
16459,A marked sensation immediately ensued.
16460,"Those in the rear were always closed, with the exception of the large back room, fourth story."
16461,"And nearest of all was the graveyard, where deformed trees tossed insane branches as their roots displaced unhallowed slabs and sucked venom from what lay below."
16462,"Raymond was ten years older; to his previous beauty, noble mien, and commanding aspect, he now added gentlest benevolence, winning tenderness, graceful and unwearied attention to the wishes of another."
16463,"There were no horses to be procured, and I must return by the lake; but the wind was unfavourable, and the rain fell in torrents."
16464,"Mumbled tales of the weird rites and godless revels of bygone years in the ancient hall gave to me a new and potent interest in the tomb, before whose door I would sit for hours at a time each day."
16465,"I was unable to remain for a single instant in the same place; I jumped over the chairs, clapped my hands, and laughed aloud."
16466,"My indecisive speculation whether to explore the passage alone and immediately with my pocket light or to try to assemble a band of squatters for the quest, was interrupted after a time by a sudden rush of wind from outside which blew out the candle and left me in stark blackness."
16467,"And farther: in what I relate it will be seen that between the fate of the unhappy Mary Cecilia Rogers, so far as that fate is known, and the fate of one Marie Rogêt up to a certain epoch in her history, there has existed a parallel in the contemplation of whose wonderful exactitude the reason becomes embarrassed."
16468,"He has been much admired by Mr. John Neal, and was a great man in a small way."
16469,Desire to avoid needless explanations in case of unexpected police intrusions prompted these plans for a quiet and unostentatious departure.
16470,"The stuffed goddess was a nauseous sight, withered and eaten away, but it was clearly a mummified white ape of some unknown species, less hairy than any recorded variety, and infinitely nearer mankind quite shockingly so."
16471,"I waited till the crowd had oozed into the black doorway, and till all the stragglers had followed."
16472,"Had I made the wild attempt you suggest, I might never have left the Ministerial presence alive."
16473,"""And now, mon ami,"" said she, taking my hand, and so interrupting this train of reflection, ""and now, mon cher ami, since we are indissolubly one since I have yielded to your passionate entreaties, and performed my portion of our agreement I presume you have not forgotten that you also have a little favor to bestow a little promise which it is your intention to keep."
16474,"She married; and, carrying her restless energy of character with her into new scenes, she turned her thoughts to ambition, and aimed at the title and power of Princess of Wallachia; while her patriotic feelings were soothed by the idea of the good she might do her country, when her husband should be chief of this principality."
16475,"It was the porcelain miniature of a young man in a smartly curled bag wig, and bore the initials ""J."
16476,"The phrase quoted may mean any thing, or nothing, and guides in no degree."
16477,It is now rendered necessary that I give the facts as far as I comprehend them myself.
16478,"Now the work of drainage was ready to begin, and the labourers from the north were soon to strip the forbidden bog of its green moss and red heather, and kill the tiny shell paved streamlets and quiet blue pools fringed with rushes."
16479,This was a state of things not to be endured.
16480,"In the darkness below there loomed the vast blurred outlines of a vessel breaking up on the cruel rocks, and as I glanced out over the waste I saw that the light had failed for the first time since my grandfather had assumed its care."
16481,"Better die at once better plunge a poinard in her bosom, still untouched by drear adversity, and then again sheathe it in my own But, no; in times of misery we must fight against our destinies, and strive not to be overcome by them."
16482,"In accomplishing this point, I was urged partly, and perhaps principally, by a regretful memory of the deceased, but also, in part, by an uneasy, and not altogether horrorless curiosity respecting yourself."
16483,"Do you not see my tears which I in vain strive against You hear unmoved my voice broken by sobs Feel how my hand trembles: my whole heart is in the words I speak and you must not endeavour to silence me by mere words barren of meaning: the agony of my doubt hurries me on, and you must reply."
16484,"And for this trash of trash, we are modestly requested to 'pay promptly.'"
16485,"I crawled through carefully, and tried to prevent the heavy slab from falling back into place; but failed in the latter attempt."
16486,"My uncle's face came to me with less pleasant associations than in waking hours, and I recall many futile struggles and attempts to scream."
16487,West was not even excited now.
16488,"After that I lost the feeling that there were persons on the settle, and was reading intently and shudderingly when the old man came back booted and dressed in a loose antique costume, and sat down on that very bench, so that I could not see him."
16489,"You can get a music mill for a mere song, and to put it in order, you have but to open the works, and give them three or four smart raps with a hammer."
16490,Be of heart and fear nothing.
16491,Ef they dun't they'll kinder quiet daown like.
16492,"My daughter, Mademoiselle Moissart, she marry von Monsieur Voissart, and de name is bot ver respectaable name."""
16493,This last was much soiled and crumpled.
16494,"Hey? Think the old man's crazy, eh? Wal, Sir, let me tell ye that ain't the wust"" Zadok was really screaming now, and the mad frenzy of his voice disturbed me more than I care to own."
16495,And a violet coloured gas told him that this part of space was outside what he had called infinity.
16496,I verily believe that my ill looks alone saved me a flogging.
16497,"Mr. Henson, accompanied by his friend Mr. Ainsworth, was admitted to a private view of the balloon, on Saturday last when the two gentlemen made final arrangements to be included in the adventure."
16498,"Me feered de bug what I keer for de bug?"""
16499,"Erring as all mortals must, they were forced by their rigid code to seek concealment above all else; so that they came to use less and less taste in what they concealed."
16500,"She tried to disperse them, but they refused to be checked her utterance was choaked."
16501,"With these, her children, the noble widow constantly resided at Windsor; and admitted no visitors, except her own partizans, travellers from her native Germany, and a few of the foreign ministers."
16502,"I had no fear, therefore, that any circumstantial evidence could be brought forward strong enough to convict her."
16503,The peasants had gone from Kilderry because Denys Barry was to drain the great bog.
16504,"These orders were sufficient, I well knew, to insure their immediate disappearance, one and all, as soon as my back was turned."
16505,"Pestilence had become a part of our future, our existence; it was to be guarded against, like the flooding of rivers, the encroachments of ocean, or the inclemency of the sky."
16506,"It was the secrets of heaven and earth that I desired to learn; and whether it was the outward substance of things or the inner spirit of nature and the mysterious soul of man that occupied me, still my inquiries were directed to the metaphysical, or in its highest sense, the physical secrets of the world."
16507,In these various brochures the aim is always satirical; the theme being a description of Lunarian customs as compared with ours.
16508,"You must begin life, he said: you are seventeen, and longer delay would render the necessary apprenticeship more and more irksome."
16509,But why approach my chamber?
16510,"""You will say, no doubt, using the language of the law, that 'to make out my case,' I should rather undervalue, than insist upon a full estimation of the activity required in this matter."
16511,"Nature had endowed him with no neck, and had placed his ankles as usual with that race in the middle of the upper portion of the feet."
16512,"The countenance evinces no ingenuity, and is surpassed, in its resemblance to the human face, by the very commonest of wax works."
16513,"The year had been a year of terror, and of feelings more intense than terror for which there is no name upon the earth."
16514,"I had money with me and gained the friendship of the villagers by distributing it; or I brought with me some food that I had killed, which, after taking a small part, I always presented to those who had provided me with fire and utensils for cooking."
16515,"In this twilight, too, he began to realise the truth and to shout loudly as if his horse outside could do more than neigh an unsympathetic reply."
16516,So I did not abandon the search until I had become fully satisfied that the thief is a more astute man than myself.
16517,Shouts from a thousand voices now rent the air the cry of applause became universal.
16518,"Cha'ncey he says they leads off into the medders, whar a great swath wider'n a barn is matted daown, an' all the stun walls tumbled every whichway wherever it goes."
16519,"Filled with wonder, yet now realising how the man had obtained access to the chateau, I proceeded to return."
16520,"Great Cthulhu is Their cousin, yet can he spy Them only dimly."
16521,"Later traded to Jacques Caboche, another settler, it was in lost in a game of chess or poker to a newcomer named Hans Zimmerman; being used by him as a beer stein until one day, under the spell of its contents, he suffered it to roll from his front stoop to the prairie path before his home where, falling into the burrow of a prairie dog, it passed beyond his power of discovery or recovery upon his awaking."
16522,"He had been listening with peculiar intensity ever since my shocked scream had waked unaccustomed echoes in the dark cellar, and now he seemed struck with a fright which, though not comparable to my own, had in it more of the physical than of the spiritual."
16523,"As regards vegetation, as well as in respect to every thing else, the scene softened and sloped to the south."
16524,"Its cultural level had fallen very low, as proved by decaying furniture and scattered silverware which must have been long abandoned when its owners left."
16525,"We were told that this would not be the case; that we were by nature a poetical people, a nation easily duped by words, ready to array clouds in splendour, and bestow honour on the dust."
16526,"At length lassitude succeeded to the tumult I had before endured, and I threw myself on the bed in my clothes, endeavouring to seek a few moments of forgetfulness."
16527,"There seemed to be a void, and nothing more, and I felt a childish fear which prompted me to draw from my hip pocket the revolver I always carried after dark since the night I was held up in East Providence."
16528,In a thousand ways he smoothed for me the path of knowledge and made the most abstruse inquiries clear and facile to my apprehension.
16529,"""I guess ye kin git to Seth Bishop's quickest by cuttin' acrost the lower medder here, wadin' the brook at the low place, an' climbin' through Carrier's mowin' and the timber lot beyont."
16530,"Having thus completed a Magazine article, I gave it, for appellation, ""Fol Lol, by the Author of 'The Oil of Bob,'"" and enveloped it to the ""Goosetherumfoodle."""
16531,"The leafless trees spread their fibrous branches against the pure sky; their intricate and pervious tracery resembled delicate sea weed; the deer were turning up the snow in search of the hidden grass; the white was made intensely dazzling by the sun, and trunks of the trees, rendered more conspicuous by the loss of preponderating foliage, gathered around like the labyrinthine columns of a vast temple; it was impossible not to receive pleasure from the sight of these things."
16532,"And I was too dazed to exult when he whispered back a thing I had half expected ""No it wasn't that way at all."
16533,His first wish was aggrandisement; and the means that led towards this end were secondary considerations.
16534,"Retaining some presence of mind, I took the one offered me by Preston; placed it, unnoticed, over my own; left the apartment with a resolute scowl of defiance; and, next morning ere dawn of day, commenced a hurried journey from Oxford to the continent, in a perfect agony of horror and of shame."
16535,"But the unparticled matter, set in motion by a law, or quality, existing within itself, is thinking."
16536,There was then no longer any reasonable room for doubt.
16537,"A manservant shewed me to my room, which was in a remote tower overlooking the village, and the plain at the edge of the bog, and the bog itself; so that I could see from my windows in the moonlight the silent roofs from which the peasants had fled and which now sheltered the labourers from the north, and too, the parish church with its antique spire, and far out across the brooding bog the remote olden ruin on the islet gleaming white and spectral."
16538,"""How kind and generous you are every one else believes in her guilt, and that made me wretched, for I knew that it was impossible: and to see every one else prejudiced in so deadly a manner rendered me hopeless and despairing."""
16539,"The strangeness did not reside in what he said, or even in the simple idioms he used; but seemed vaguely linked with his intonation or with the internal organs that produced the spoken sounds."
16540,"I attached the car, therefore, and put all my implements in it not forgetting the condensing apparatus, a copious supply of water, and a large quantity of provisions, such as pemmican, in which much nutriment is contained in comparatively little bulk."
16541,"I remember how I shuddered at his facial expression on the night before the awful happening, when he talked so incessantly of his theory, why certain corpses never decay, but rest firm and fat in their tombs for a thousand years."
16542,"By means of a crow bar I easily dislodged the bricks, and, having carefully deposited the body against the inner wall, I propped it in that position, while, with little trouble, I re laid the whole structure as it originally stood."
16543,"He appeared like the forgotten spirit of the time in the theatres, and bade the spectators go home and die."
16544,"But to the inorganic beings to the angels the whole of the unparticled matter is substance that is to say, the whole of what we term ""space"" is to them the truest substantiality; the stars, meantime, through what we consider their materiality, escaping the angelic sense, just in proportion as the unparticled matter, through what we consider its immateriality, eludes the organic."
16545,"Volition I had none, but appeared to be impelled into motion, and flitted buoyantly out of the city, retracing the circuitous path by which I had entered it."
16546,"Wonder if she remembers the old adage about ""blood out of a turnip,"" c.? Mem."
16547,"""Weep not, sweet child,"" said he, ""the coming death of one you have hardly known."
16548,"""Having prescribed thus a limit to suit its own preconceived notions; having assumed that, if this were the body of Marie, it could have been in the water but a very brief time; the journal goes on to say: 'All experience has shown that drowned bodies, or bodies thrown into the water immediately after death by violence, require from six to ten days for sufficient decomposition to take place to bring them to the top of the water."
16549,"I have said that I am a constant speculator concerning dream life, and from this you may judge of the eagerness with which I applied myself to the study of the new patient as soon as I had fully ascertained the facts of his case."
16550,"In the possibility of any improvement, properly so called, being effected by man himself in the general condition of man, he had I am sorry to confess it little faith."
16551,"""Here, then,"" said Dupin to me, ""you have precisely what you demand to make the ascendancy complete the robber's knowledge of the loser's knowledge of the robber."""
16552,"By degrees, I remember, a stronger light pressed upon my nerves, so that I was obliged to shut my eyes."
16553,"My uncle looked concerned, and paused in his unwrapping to study my countenance."
16554,This is just; and the reference to the sense of human interest is equally so.
16555,In an instant I was precipitated and had the misfortune to fracture my arm.
16556,"Better still, though, he would utilise only two boxes of the base to support the superstructure, leaving one free to be piled on top in case the actual feat of escape required an even greater altitude."
16557,"Taking a step forward, it has been his misfortune to take two toward the right, and three toward the left."
16558,"Curtis was past all coherence, and even isolated replies were almost too much for him."
16559,"At twenty five minutes past five in the afternoon, precisely, the huge minute hand had proceeded sufficiently far on its terrible revolution to sever the small remainder of my neck."
16560,"I was punctual to the appointed hour on the following day, and found Lord Raymond waiting for me."
16561,"They retreated, and, joining others of their companions, still fell back, till they reached the main body."
16562,"This much was clear despite the nauseous eyes, the voiceless simianism, and the daemoniac savagery."
16563,"On Lammas Night, , Dr. Houghton of Aylesbury was hastily summoned by Wilbur Whateley, who had lashed his one remaining horse through the darkness and telephoned from Osborn's in the village."
16564,"Adrian's soul was painted in his countenance, and concealment or deceit were at the antipodes to the dreadless frankness of his nature."
16565,And to escape this relentless thing I plunged gladly and unhesitatingly into the stinking shallows where amidst weedy walls and sunken streets fat sea worms feast upon the world's dead.
16566,"The car is much smaller and lighter, in proportion, than the one appended to the model."
16567,My father had been and his memory was the life of my life.
16568,"""Von"" echoed every little old gentleman in every leather bottomed arm chair in Vondervotteimittiss. ""Von"" said his watch also; ""von"" said the watch of his vrow; and ""von"" said the watches of the boys, and the little gilt repeaters on the tails of the cat and pig."
16569,Do not return to your families with the stigma of disgrace marked on your brows.
16570,"The singing was interrupted by laughing and talking; never was merry ditty so sadly timed, never laughter more akin to tears."
16571,"Knowing little of the art myself, I was yet certain that none of his harmonies had any relation to music I had heard before; and concluded that he was a composer of highly original genius."
16572,"It sounded so unnatural slopping like, he said that he didn't dare undress and go to sleep."
16573,"The bandage about the jaws was a silk handkerchief in which I had bound up my head, in default of my customary nightcap."
16574,"Adrian despised the narrow views of the politician, and Raymond held in supreme contempt the benevolent visions of the philanthropist."
16575,"Their incursion would hardly have been felt had they come alone; but the Irish, collected in unnatural numbers, began to feel the inroads of famine, and they followed in the wake of the Americans for England also."
16576,"Then I came suddenly into still noonday solitudes, where no wind of heaven ever intruded, and where vast meadows of poppies, and slender, lily looking flowers spread themselves out a weary distance, all silent and motionless forever."
16577,"Next evening found me a somewhat late visitor at the Rantipole theatre, where I felt sure of satisfying my curiosity at once, by merely stepping into the box of those exquisite specimens of affability and omniscience, the Misses Arabella and Miranda Cognoscenti."
16578,"Madame Deluc's attention was called to the dress worn by the girl, on account of its resemblance to one worn by a deceased relative."
16579,"She, too, was quite a child when married; and her mother, also, Madame Moissart, was only fourteen when led to the altar."
16580,"With the particles of the oily and spicy viand which now remained, I thoroughly rubbed the bandage wherever I could reach it; then, raising my hand from the floor, I lay breathlessly still."
16581,"At last he rose, and said in his usual tone of voice, ""The time grows on us, Verney, I must away."
16582,Sometimes we passed whole days under the leafy covert of the forest with our books and music.
16583,It was impossible to effect any thing in so short a time.
16584,There are six candles on the board of the Automaton during exhibition.
16585,My reply was ready; a reproach I deemed calculated to sting his very heart.
16586,"It is more cold within her, than a fire left by gypsies in winter time, the spent embers crowned by a pyramid of snow."
16587,"Mont Blanc, the supreme and magnificent Mont Blanc, raised itself from the surrounding aiguilles, and its tremendous dome overlooked the valley."
16588,"Before I had quitted your apartment, on a sensation of cold, I had covered myself with some clothes, but these were insufficient to secure me from the dews of night."
16589,"As the naiads neared the bog, without altering their course, a new line of stumbling stragglers zigzagged drunkenly out of the castle from some door far below my window, groped sightlessly across the courtyard and through the intervening bit of village, and joined the floundering column of labourers on the plain."
16590,"Yes, you are the sole, the agonizing cause of all I suffer, of all I must suffer untill I die."
16591,"Though these stately old avenues were ill surfaced and unkempt, their elm shaded dignity had not entirely departed."
16592,"But I was restrained, when I thought of the heroic and suffering Elizabeth, whom I tenderly loved, and whose existence was bound up in mine."
16593,"Morning after morning he would lie on the cliffs and look over the world's rim at the cryptical aether beyond, listening to spectral bells and the wild cries of what might have been gulls."
16594,"It grew louder louder louder And still the men chatted pleasantly, and smiled."
16595,It occurred to me that I must be in a highly nervous state to let a few random creakings set me off speculating in this fashion but I regretted none the less that I was unarmed.
16596,"The average of their intelligence is woefully low, whilst their annals reek of overt viciousness and of half hidden murders, incests, and deeds of almost unnamable violence and perversity."
16597,She saw that he was endowed with genius and surpassing talent; these she cultivated for the sake of afterwards using them for the furtherance of her own views.
16598,I mean the truth of Gravitation.
16599,"Nor shall you, my friend; cheer up; cease to weep, I entreat you."
16600,In this state of mind I wrote to Elizabeth.
16601,"I do so because of my desire to set certain unusual facts before the public; a thing I shall not in all probability survive to accomplish in person, since the circumstances surrounding me are as menacing as they are extraordinary, and involve not only the hopeless crippling of the U , but the impairment of my iron German will in a manner most disastrous."
16602,"Write, dearest Victor, one line one word will be a blessing to us."
16603,"What the whole proceeding meant, I could not imagine; unless it involved some strange rite connected with Devil Reef, or unless some party had landed from a ship on that sinister rock."
16604,"Yonder are Islesen, Hotholm, Keildhelm, Suarven, and Buckholm."
16605,"""The end,"" ran that noisome scrawl, ""is here."
16606,"An' that ain't the wust, nuther."
16607,"But you are distant from me, and it is possible that you may dread and yet be pleased with this explanation; and in a probability of this being the case, I dare not any longer postpone writing what, during your absence, I have often wished to express to you but have never had the courage to begin."
16608,"The mansion, gone for a century, once more reared its stately height to the raptured vision; every window ablaze with the splendour of many candles."
16609,"Yet when the men of Ulthar and Nir and Hatheg crushed their fears and scaled that haunted steep by day in search of Barzai the Wise, they found graven in the naked stone of the summit a curious and Cyclopean symbol fifty cubits wide, as if the rock had been riven by some titanic chisel."
16610,"""After the murder of Clerval I returned to Switzerland, heart broken and overcome."
16611,"I would be an editor I would be a poet I would pen stanzas to the 'Oil of Bob.' Pardon me and aid me to be great"" ""My dear Thingum,"" replied my father, I had been christened Thingum after a wealthy relative so surnamed, ""My dear Thingum,"" he said, raising me from my knees by the ears ""Thingum, my boy, you're a trump, and take after your father in having a soul."
16612,When I die I will bequeath you the 'Lollipop.'
16613,All this he tells me yet I cannot forget what I saw in the sky on the night after Slater died.
16614,She welcomed me with the greatest affection.
16615,"Overpowered by an intense sentiment of horror, unaccountable yet unendurable, I threw on my clothes with haste for I felt that I should sleep no more during the night, and endeavored to arouse myself from the pitiable condition into which I had fallen, by pacing rapidly to and fro through the apartment."
16616,"Very little dependence is to be placed upon it, in my humble opinion; and if I were not well aware, from experience, how very easily men of science are mystified, on points out of their usual range of inquiry, I should be profoundly astonished at finding so eminent a chemist as Professor Draper, discussing Mr. Kissam's or is it Mr. Quizzem's?"
16617,Yew grows an' that grows faster.
16618,"He had opened his oblong box, in order to feast his eyes on the pictorial treasure within."
16619,"They had issued from the well, which lay just within view to my right."
16620,"About noon I encountered a suitable supply house far downtown, and at approximately : p.m. arrived at my boarding place with the necessary paraphernalia and two sturdy and intelligent mechanics."
16621,"""That I certainly will, Mr. Blackwood,"" said I. ""Good"" he replied."
16622,"I once had a friend, the most noble of human creatures, and am entitled, therefore, to judge respecting friendship."
16623,"There were only three passengers dark, unkempt men of sullen visage and somewhat youthful cast and when the vehicle stopped they clumsily shambled out and began walking up State Street in a silent, almost furtive fashion."
16624,"No path was trodden in its vicinity; and, to reach our happy home, there was need of putting back, with force, the foliage of many thousands of forest trees, and of crushing to death the glories of many millions of fragrant flowers."
16625,"Her starboard side was next the whirl, and on the larboard arose the world of ocean we had left."
16626,"Almost dazed by this sudden obstacle, and violently dreading the fall of night in this decaying and half unlighted town, I left the bus and reëntered the hotel lobby; where the sullen, queer looking night clerk told me I could have Room on next the top floor large, but without running water for a dollar."
16627,At length the thought of you crossed my mind.
16628,"During the two years that had elapsed previous to their marriage my father had gradually relinquished all his public functions; and immediately after their union they sought the pleasant climate of Italy, and the change of scene and interest attendant on a tour through that land of wonders, as a restorative for her weakened frame."
16629,"I could not help thinking of the wild ritual of this work, and of its probable influence upon the hypochondriac, when, one evening, having informed me abruptly that the lady Madeline was no more, he stated his intention of preserving her corpse for a fortnight, previously to its final interment, in one of the numerous vaults within the main walls of the building."
16630,"The flood and storms did more harm to continental Europe than to us giving, as it were, the last blow to the calamities which destroyed it."
16631,"I have already put off the carelessness of childhood, the unlined brow, and springy gait of early years, that they may adorn thee."
16632,"And not only could such a thing do this, but at any epoch, should a given result be afforded him should one of these numberless comets, for example, be presented to his inspection he could have no difficulty in determining, by the analytic retrogradation, to what original impulse it was due."
16633,"The choice spots over here among the rocks, however, not only yield the finest variety, but in far greater abundance; so that we often got in a single day, what the more timid of the craft could not scrape together in a week."
16634,"His nose was prodigiously long, crooked, and inflammatory; his eyes full, brilliant, and acute; his chin and cheeks, although wrinkled with age, were broad, puffy, and double; but of ears of any kind or character there was not a semblance to be discovered upon any portion of his head."
16635,"The weight of these valuables exceeded three hundred and fifty pounds avoirdupois; and in this estimate I have not included one hundred and ninety seven superb gold watches; three of the number being worth each five hundred dollars, if one."
16636,"This was to a great degree the case: for, though a large landed proprietor, yet, being a projector, and of an ardent and industrious disposition, he had on his own estate given himself up to agricultural labours."
16637,I passed the night wretchedly.
16638,"The beldame's face was alight with inhuman exultation, and the little yellow toothed morbidity tittered mockingly as it pointed at the heavily sleeping form of Elwood on the other couch across the room."
16639,"Nature grows old, and shakes in her decaying limbs, creation has become bankrupt What wonder then, that eclipse and death have led to destruction the light of thy life, O Perdita"" CHAPTER IX."
16640,And all the while the clamour at the outer door increased.
16641,The hours were slow for each minute was employed; we lived more in one week than many do in the course of several months and the variety and novelty of our pleasures gave zest to each.
16642,"And in the direction or concentration of this effort, or, still more properly, in its adaption to the eyes which were to behold it upon earth, he perceived that he should be employing the best means laboring to the greatest advantage in the fulfilment of his destiny as t."
16643,"Beaufort had taken effectual measures to conceal himself, and it was ten months before my father discovered his abode."
16644,"Against a pretty stiff breeze, I feel convinced, we can make our way with the propeller."
16645,"For weeks, for months, I pondered upon the means of the murder."
16646,"The room, although ill contrived, smoke blackened, low pitched, and in every other respect agreeing with the general character of such places at the period was, nevertheless, in the opinion of the grotesque groups scattered here and there within it, sufficiently well adapted to its purpose."
16647,"I assume upon myself to say, that no individual, of however great genius ever wrote with a good pen understand me, a good article."
16648,"I yearned mightily to enter this fascinating yet repellent city, and besought the bearded man to land me at the stone pier by the huge carven gate Akariel; but he gently denied my wish, saying: ""Into Thalarion, the City of a Thousand Wonders, many have passed but none returned."
16649,"""I spent the winter in this manner."
16650,"Tall and fairly handsome, with a sort of weird Eastern grace despite certain slight oddities of proportion, Robert Jermyn began life as a scholar and investigator."
16651,I looked upon my future felicity as secured.
16652,"The one wrote a Jeremiad about usury, and was called Jeremy Bentham."
16653,"Whenever a rich old hunks or prodigal heir or bankrupt corporation gets into the notion of putting up a palace, there is no such thing in the world as stopping either of them, and this every intelligent person knows."
16654,'The pieces of the frock torn out by the bushes were about three inches wide and six inches long.
16655,"Northwardly from that huge rim before mentioned, and which, with slight qualification, may be called the limit of human discovery in these regions, one unbroken, or nearly unbroken, sheet of ice continues to extend."
16656,"I really believe you don't know me at all."""
16657,"It was clear, therefore, that you would not fail to combine the two ideas of Orion and Chantilly."
16658,Its beauty even exceeded my anticipations and yet there was something about it which disappointed me without my being able to tell exactly what it was.
16659,"I had acquired in my harp a companion in rainy days; a sweet soother of my feelings when any untoward accident ruffled them: I often addressed it as my only friend; I could pour forth to it my hopes and loves, and I fancied that its sweet accents answered me."
16660,"The wind grew stronger, and the air was filled with the lethal, charnel odour of plague stricken towns and uncovered cemeteries."
16661,"Alfred was himself a scholar and poet of distinction, though cursed with a certain childish irresponsibility which made him an ideal prey for Sheehan's runner."
16662,"He was essentially a ""theorist"" that word now of so much sanctity, formerly an epithet of contempt."
16663,"I felt sufficiently safe, therefore, and composed myself to my slumbers forthwith."
16664,"Nothing of importance occurred, and I passed the day in reading, having taken care to supply myself with books."
16665,"""One by one, her brothers and sister died; and her mother, with the exception of her neglected daughter, was left childless."
16666,"And then the stately grace of the clean, delicately granulated columnar stems, the largest four feet in diameter, at twenty from the ground."
16667,"I experienced some shame at my susceptibility to so slight a thing, but the drawing nevertheless disturbed me, especially in connexion with some adjacent passages descriptive of Anzique gastronomy."
16668,"A very simple diddle, indeed, is this."
16669,"My speech, always susceptible to environmental influences, was the first thing to succumb to the change; and my suddenly acquired archaism of diction was soon remarked upon."
16670,"He loathed the idea that his daughter should be united to a Christian, but he feared the resentment of Felix if he should appear lukewarm, for he knew that he was still in the power of his deliverer if he should choose to betray him to the Italian state which they inhabited."
16671,"That, Pickman said, was the kind of thing he had been talking about an aperture of the network of tunnels that used to undermine the hill."
16672,"One evening, quitting our inn, we strolled down a shady lane, then up a grassy slope, till we came to an eminence, that commanded an extensive view of hill and dale, meandering rivers, dark woods, and shining villages."
16673,I had finished a portion of the last and the eleventh; there remained but a single stone to be fitted and plastered in.
16674,"The silence of midnight, to speak truly, though apparently a paradox, rung in my ears."
16675,"They behaved remarkably well especially so, any one of sense might have known that some devilish scheme was brewing from that particular fact, that the fellows behaved so remarkably well."
16676,"Heavens the town is swarming with wild beasts How terrible a spectacle how dangerous a peculiarity"" Terrible, if you please; but not in the least degree dangerous."
16677,Will you accompany me to Windsor to morrow?
16678,"We have the name of the Lothario in question, who is, at present, stationed in Paris, but, for obvious reasons, forbear to make it public."""
16679,"As Kalos grew inexplicably weaker and weaker despite the ministrations of puzzled physicians and of his assiduous friend, he desired to be carried often to the grove which he so loved."
16680,"Walakea, though, was one of the few as hadn't got none of the fish blood bein' of a royal line that intermarried with royal lines on other islands."
16681,His Excellency stooped to take it up.
16682,We first came upon a few stragglers of the Irish at St. Albans.
16683,"I saw that the moat was filled in, and that some of the well known towers were demolished; whilst new wings existed to confuse the beholder."
16684,"""See see"" cried he, shrieking in my ears, ""Almighty God see see"" As he spoke, I became aware of a dull, sullen glare of red light which streamed down the sides of the vast chasm where we lay, and threw a fitful brilliancy upon our deck."
16685,"Wise men told him his simple fancies were inane and childish, and he believed it because he could see that they might easily be so."
16686,"I said to myself, with all the ardour of a sculptor, that this man was a faun's statue out of antique Hellas, dug from a temple's ruins and brought somehow to life in our stifling age only to feel the chill and pressure of devastating years."
16687,All I can say is that they came from something I had known as a friend.
16688,"At once he saw there was something on the table which did not belong there, and a second look left no room for doubt."
16689,"I had heard the noise, however faint, and my soul was awakened within me."
16690,"They hurried away, as soon as they saw me; my agitated mien added to their fear of coming near one who had entered within the verge of contagion."
16691,"With strange art were they builded, for no other city had houses like them; and travellers from Thraa and Ilarnek and Kadatheron marvelled at the shining domes wherewith they were surmounted."
16692,The last action at which I was present was the taking of .
16693,"Had I been able to meet with it, at the moment, there could have been no doubt of its fate; but it appeared that the crafty animal had been alarmed at the violence of my previous anger, and forebore to present itself in my present mood."
16694,"Could I have depended, indeed, upon Jupiter's aid, I would have had no hesitation in attempting to get the lunatic home by force; but I was too well assured of the old negro's disposition, to hope that he would assist me, under any circumstances, in a personal contest with his master."
16695,"On each side of the chest, near the top, were three rings of iron six in all by means of which a firm hold could be obtained by six persons."
16696,He found the Marsh refinery a queer place it's in an old mill on the lower falls of the Manuxet.
16697,"They insisted, therefore, that I should engage with a solemn promise that if the vessel should be freed I would instantly direct my course southwards."
16698,"An eyeglass, on the other hand, has a savor of downright foppery and affectation."
16699,"""That will do must try it again."""
16700,"At other times he would call for the dreaded Necronomicon and the Daemonolatreia of Remigius, in which he seemed hopeful of finding some formula to check the peril he conjured up."
16701,"For on the faces of this throng was writ a madness born of horror unendurable, and on their tongues were words so terrible that no hearer paused for proof."
16702,"""This thicket was a singular an exceedingly singular one."
16703,"The occupant was emitting sounds of veritably inhuman nature, as if racked by some torment beyond description."
16704,"I constantly consulted my watch by the light of my electric lantern, and listened with feverish anxiety at the receiver of the telephone; but for more than a quarter of an hour heard nothing."
16705,Nothing could exceed in beauty the contrast between these two excellent creatures.
16706,But you speak merely of impulses upon the air.
16707,"She had never been to school, but was filled with disjointed scraps of ancient lore that Old Whateley had taught her."
16708,"Looking at my watch, I found it six o'clock."
16709,"About seven o'clock in the evening she had died, and her frantic husband had made a frightful scene in his efforts to kill West, whom he wildly blamed for not saving her life."
16710,"You throw a torch into a pile of buildings, and when they are consumed, you sit among the ruins and lament the fall."
16711,"We found Raymond in his dining room with six others: the bottle was being pushed about merrily, and had made considerable inroads on the understanding of one or two."
16712,Yet the effect is incongruous to the timid alone.
16713,"I shall be done by and by, and then you may begin."
16714,"In the coffin lay an amulet of curious and exotic design, which had apparently been worn around the sleeper's neck."
16715,"One man in particular stood in front, his eyes fixt on the prophet, his mouth open, his limbs rigid, while his face changed to various colours, yellow, blue, and green, through intense fear."
16716,"In case of his suspicions with regard to my existence proving ultimately correct, he, in the meantime, made an incision in my stomach, and removed several of my viscera for private dissection."
16717,"The Greek fleet blockading every port of Stamboul, prevented the arrival of succour from Asia; all egress on the side towards land had become impracticable, except to such desperate sallies, as reduced the numbers of the enemy without making any impression on our lines."
16718,"And yet I am strangely content, and cling desperately to those sere memories, when my mind momentarily threatens to reach beyond to the other."
16719,Out of the South it was that the White Ship used to come when the moon was full and high in the heavens.
16720,"I repassed, in my memory, my whole life my quiet happiness while residing with my family in Geneva, the death of my mother, and my departure for Ingolstadt."
16721,The shrieks were continued until the gate was forced and then suddenly ceased.
16722,I fancied that it stood on end with indignation.
16723,"That Idris, the princely born, nursling of wealth and luxury, should have come through the tempestuous winter night from her regal abode, and standing at my lowly door, conjure me to fly with her through darkness and storm was surely a dream again her plaintive tones, the sight of her loveliness assured me that it was no vision."
16724,"After some observations on the scenery and seats, Raymond said: ""Philosophers have called man a microcosm of nature, and find a reflection in the internal mind for all this machinery visibly at work around us."
16725,He loved her for her beauty and for her amiable disposition but he seemed to love her more for what he considered her superior wisdom.
16726,"His design was to visit India, in the belief that he had in his knowledge of its various languages, and in the views he had taken of its society, the means of materially assisting the progress of European colonization and trade."
16727,"They entered, and their leader addressed me."
16728,One was an elm of fine size and exquisite form: it stood guard over the southern gate of the vale.
16729,"DURING the fall of the year , while residing near Charlottesville, Virginia, I casually made the acquaintance of Mr. Augustus Bedloe."
16730,"I could hardly forbear laughing in his face while he proceeded to discuss, with the profoundest gravity, what he termed ""the refinedly peculiar character"" of the insult he had received."
16731,I reply that I know nothing beyond what I saw.
16732,"The resources of his mind on this occasion were truly astonishing: his conversation was full of imagination; and very often, in imitation of the Persian and Arabic writers, he invented tales of wonderful fancy and passion."
16733,"We suffered much, and made a narrow escape, but fortune befriended us, as well as our mates in the long boat."
16734,"I went directly home to Toledo from Boston, and later spent a month at Maumee recuperating from my ordeal."
16735,"Hence I was obliged to enforce a rigid system of exclusion; and none obtained access to the premises upon whose discretion I could not rely."""
16736,"The whole series of my life appeared to me as a dream; I sometimes doubted if indeed it were all true, for it never presented itself to my mind with the force of reality."
16737,"""Get well and return to us."
16738,"What a brimful cup of joyful agony it was, when his face first gleamed with the glance of recognition when he pressed my hand, now more fevered than his own, and when he pronounced my name No trace of his past insanity remained, to dash my joy with sorrow."
16739,"He became pale, then excessively red; then, dropping his pocket handkerchief, stooped to recover it, when I caught a glimpse of his countenance, while it could be seen by no one else at the table."
16740,"Against these assertions I have no tangible proof to offer, since my key to the padlock was lost in the struggle on that night of horrors."
16741,"In this manner I fancied I could distinguish the precise moment when he fairly disengaged the lid also, that I could determine when he removed it altogether, and when he deposited it upon the lower berth in his room; this latter point I knew, for example, by certain slight taps which the lid made in striking against the wooden edges of the berth, as he endeavored to lay it down very gently there being no room for it on the floor."
16742,"I had met, however, with many angles in the wall, and thus I could form no guess at the shape of the vault; for vault I could not help supposing it to be."
16743,"The writers seem, in each instance, to be utterly uninformed in respect to astronomy."
16744,"What though those limbs moved not, and those lips could no more frame modulated accents of wisdom and love What though like a weed flung from the fruitless sea, he lay the prey of corruption still that was the form she had caressed, those the lips that meeting hers, had drank the spirit of love from the commingling breath; that was the earthly mechanism of dissoluble clay she had called her own."
16745,As I crawled into the stranded boat I realised that only one theory could explain my position.
16746,"The buds decked the trees, the flowers adorned the land: the dark branches, swollen with seasonable juices, expanded into leaves, and the variegated foliage of spring, bending and singing in the breeze, rejoiced in the genial warmth of the unclouded empyrean: the brooks flowed murmuring, the sea was waveless, and the promontories that over hung it were reflected in the placid waters; birds awoke in the woods, while abundant food for man and beast sprung up from the dark ground."
16747,"The slanting sun was now very low, and the whole hushed town seemed draped in an unreal and malign glamour."
16748,"I repeat, therefore, that it must have been simply a freak of my own fancy, distempered by good Captain Hardy's green tea."
16749,"Instantly a figure advanced to the threshold that of a young woman about twenty eight years of age slender, or rather slight, and somewhat above the medium height."
16750,But of course this is not the case.
16751,"The nerve conveys similar ones to the brain; the brain, also, similar ones to the unparticled matter which permeates it."
16752,"He is well acquainted with my MS., and I just copied into the middle of the blank sheet the words ""' Un dessein si funeste, S'il n'est digne d'Atrée, est digne de Thyeste."
16753,"She weeps continually, and accuses herself unjustly as the cause of his death; her words pierce my heart."
16754,"Men advised one another to see Nyarlathotep, and shuddered."
16755,These were dreadful fears and they even haunted my dreams.
16756,"Imitating Pickman's listening, I fancied I heard a faint scurrying sound somewhere, and a series of squeals or bleats in a direction I couldn't determine."
16757,"Idris is a gentle, pretty, sweet little girl; it is impossible not to have an affection for her, and I have a very sincere one; only do not speak of love love, the tyrant and the tyrant queller; love, until now my conqueror, now my slave; the hungry fire, the untameable beast, the fanged snake no no I will have nothing to do with that love."
16758,"It is now, to be sure, growing rather dark but you can examine it at your leisure in the morning."
16759,"But, under the real circumstances of the case, if we are to suppose gold the motive of this outrage, we must also imagine the perpetrator so vacillating an idiot as to have abandoned his gold and his motive together."
16760,"""Captain Pratt, on the contrary, when he had sailed a thousand miles west of this position, was an hour, and when he had sailed twenty four thousand miles west, was twenty four hours, or one day, behind the time at London."
16761,"Had checked for nothing until the third day before her death, when she took out in person the sum of francs."
16762,"Having exhausted the Harris family of all the information it could furnish, I turned my attention to early town records and deeds with a zeal more penetrating than that which my uncle had occasionally shewn in the same work."
16763,"The truth is that the introduction was attended, upon my part, with a degree of anxious embarrassment which operated to prevent any definite impressions of either time or place."
16764,"""You propose,"" replied I, ""to fly from the habitations of man, to dwell in those wilds where the beasts of the field will be your only companions."
16765,"Not knowing whether I was mad or sane, sleeping or waking, I was saved only by a merciful numbness."
16766,"But I, the true murderer, felt the never dying worm alive in my bosom, which allowed of no hope or consolation."
16767,A certain number of these failures had remained alive one was in an asylum while others had vanished and as he thought of conceivable yet virtually impossible eventualities he often shivered beneath his usual stolidity.
16768,I must look you out a little specimen of each.
16769,"In a few moments, however, it is seen that the main body of the water still sweeps in a gentle and extensive curve to the left, the wall following it as before, while a stream of considerable volume, diverging from the principal one, makes its way, with a slight ripple, under the door, and is thus hidden from sight."
16770,"When Jermyn sailed for England, therefore, it was with the exultant probability that he would within a few months receive a priceless ethnological relic confirming the wildest of his great great great grandfather's narratives that is, the wildest which he had ever heard."
16771,"The awful event was very sudden, and wholly unexpected."
16772,"As lately as an Exeter community exhumed a dead body and ceremoniously burnt its heart in order to prevent certain alleged visitations injurious to the public health and peace, and one may imagine the point of view of the same section in ."
16773,"At first I had neglected them, but now that I was able to decipher the characters in which they were written, I began to study them with diligence."
16774,"In fact, having once established connected and legible characters, I scarcely gave a thought to the mere difficulty of developing their import."
16775,"Sally she yelled aout, 'O help, the haouse is a cavin' in' . . ."
16776,"Be proud of me, and cherish your infant remembrance of me."
16777,"If such had been the case, we know our duty better than to bring him into the presence of a noble of your family."""
16778,"If I felt any emotion at all, it was a kind of chuckling satisfaction at the cleverness I was about to display in extricating myself from this dilemma; and I never, for a moment, looked upon my ultimate safety as a question susceptible of doubt."
16779,"I have said already that he had his weak points; but in speaking of these, I must not be understood as referring to his obstinacy: which was one of his strong points ""assurement ce n' etait pas sa foible."""
16780,As I waited breathlessly I perceived that both sound and wind were increasing; the effect being to give me an odd notion of myself as tied to a pair of rails in the path of a gigantic approaching locomotive.
16781,"Dreadful as the time was when I pursued my father towards the ocean, found their sic only his lifeless corpse; yet for my own sake I should prefer that to the watching one by one his senses fade; his pulse weaken and sleeplessly as it were devour his life in gazing."
16782,The youth's eyes glistened and his nostrils curled at the fumes of the brownish fluid which an attendant was pouring out for him.
16783,"Properly introduced, will show not only your knowledge of the language, but your general reading and wit."
16784,"'Oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, has the audacity to demand of us, for his twattle, a 'speedy insertion and prompt pay.'"
16785,"Perhaps it was his mountain freedom that he missed, or perhaps the turmoil in his brain had grown too acute for his rather sluggish physique; but at all events the flame of vitality flickered low in the decadent body."
16786,"The constructive or combining power, by which ingenuity is usually manifested, and to which the phrenologists I believe erroneously have assigned a separate organ, supposing it a primitive faculty, has been so frequently seen in those whose intellect bordered otherwise upon idiocy, as to have attracted general observation among writers on morals."
16787,"This boat shall guide us, with a rapidity which will surprise even ourselves, to him who employed it in the midnight of the fatal Sabbath."
16788,"Then I tried the opposite of the soothing plan, and told him he was mad pitifully demented."
16789,"Henry wished to dissuade me, but seeing me bent on this plan, ceased to remonstrate."
16790,"Be it then known that I was born on the family Estate in Devonshire, of the th day of August, or in the new Gregorian Stile of Reckoning, the th of August, being therefore now in my th year."
16791,The victim must have been absolutely passive at their will.
16792,"Romantic as all this may appear, I really received a letter from Madame Lalande the beautiful, the wealthy, the idolized Madame Lalande."
16793,"e. i. by which again the very classical phrase non est inventus, is supposed to be understood."
16794,This latter reflection urged the man still to follow the fugitive.
16795,"I turned angrily away: ""Verney,"" said Adrian, ""you are very cynical: sit down; or if you will not, perhaps, as you are not a frequent visitor, Lord Raymond will humour you, and accompany us, as we had previously agreed upon, to parliament."""
16796,Have I not told you of the great elixir of eternal life?
16797,"The two scoundrels were thus ""in at the death,"" and through a half open window of the back parlor of the inn, amused themselves in grinning at the denouement of the drama."
16798,"In dying, do they not rather waste away mournfully, rendering unto God, little by little, their existence, as these trees render up shadow after shadow, exhausting their substance unto dissolution?"
16799,"Most o' the folks araound the taown took the hard times kind o' sheep like an' resigned, but they was in bad shape because the fishin' was peterin' aout an' the mills wa'n't doin' none too well."
16800,"Those eyes those large, those shining, those divine orbs they became to me twin stars of Leda, and I to them devoutest of astrologers."
16801,"From him she sprung, flesh of his flesh, bone of his bone and not, as heretofore, are you content to trace in her downy cheek and delicate limbs, an affinity to Raymond, but in her enthusiastic affections, in the sweet qualities of her mind, you may still find him living, the good, the great, the beloved."
16802,"My daughter's daughter, Mademoiselle Voissart, she marry von Monsieur Croissart, and den again, my daughter's grande daughter, Mademoiselle Croissart, she marry von Monsieur Froissart; and I suppose you say dat dat is not von ver respectaable name."
16803,"His wit, his bon mots, the record of his personal attractions, fascinating manners, and social talents, were long remembered and repeated from mouth to mouth."
16804,"""Yours sincerely, ""STUBBS."""
16805,"Farewell, Perdita farewell, poor girl never again will you see yourself thus; luxury and wealth are no longer yours; in the excess of your poverty you may envy the homeless beggar; most truly am I without a home I live on a barren desart, which, wide and interminable, brings forth neither fruit or flower; in the midst is a solitary rock, to which thou, Perdita, art chained, and thou seest the dreary level stretch far away."""
16806,"His tale is connected and told with an appearance of the simplest truth, yet I own to you that the letters of Felix and Safie, which he showed me, and the apparition of the monster seen from our ship, brought to me a greater conviction of the truth of his narrative than his asseverations, however earnest and connected."
16807,The duck of Vaucanson was still more remarkable.
16808,"The winds of the firmament breathed but one sound within my ears, and the ripples upon the sea murmured evermore Morella."
16809,His plans were facilitated by the news which arrived from Paris.
16810,"But first, another draught of the Medoc."""
16811,Armitage chose his words very carefully.
16812,"Agatha, the ever gentle Agatha, kissed the hands of the lovely stranger, and pointing to her brother, made signs which appeared to me to mean that he had been sorrowful until she came."
16813,At length it was mentioned in the newspapers.
16814,Woodville was obliged to make a journey into the country and was detained from day to day in irksome absence from his lovely bride.
16815,"Around in every direction it was still as black as pitch, but nearly overhead there burst out, all at once, a circular rift of clear sky as clear as I ever saw and of a deep bright blue and through it there blazed forth the full moon with a lustre that I never before knew her to wear."
16816,"The thing that lay half bent on its side in a foetid pool of greenish yellow ichor and tarry stickiness was almost nine feet tall, and the dog had torn off all the clothing and some of the skin."
16817,Could not make out the words of the shrill voice.
16818,"Some miracle might have produced it, yet the stages of the discovery were distinct and probable."
16819,Could he be I shuddered at the conception the murderer of my brother?
16820,Sensations are the great things after all.
16821,"I had seen it before, let footprints tell what they might; and where it was I had seen it were best forgotten."
16822,"Will no entreaties cause thee to turn a favourable eye upon thy creature, who implores thy goodness and compassion?"
16823,"The same half disdainful lips and smile of triumph, the same intelligent eyes, the same brow and chestnut hair; her very hands and taper fingers resembled his."
16824,"William Godwin, however, says in his ""Mandeville,"" that ""invisible things are the only realities,"" and this, all will allow, is a case in point."
16825,"It was a gentle daylight rain that awaked me from my stupor in the brush grown railway cut, and when I staggered out to the roadway ahead I saw no trace of any prints in the fresh mud."
16826,"As he was proceeding along the sands, he struck his foot against something and fell at his length on the ground."
16827,"Long long long many minutes, many hours, many days, have I heard it yet I dared not oh, pity me, miserable wretch that I am I dared not I dared not speak We have put her living in the tomb Said I not that my senses were acute?"
16828,"The very beauty of the Grecian climate, during the season of spring, added torture to her sensations."
16829,"And then he devoutly loved Perdita; the bend of her head, her glossy ringlets, the turn of her form were to him subjects of deep tenderness and admiration; as she spoke, her melodious tones entered his soul; he soon softened towards her, comforting and caressing her, and endeavouring to cheat himself into the belief that he had never wronged her."
16830,"Glass or no glass, I must explore it a little."
16831,"During the 'nineties he dabbled in Satanism, and at all times he devoured avidly any doctrine or theory which seemed to promise escape from the close vistas of science and the dully unvarying laws of Nature."
16832,"In the tentacles this was observable as a deepening of the greenish tinge, whilst in the tail it was manifest as a yellowish appearance which alternated with a sickly greyish white in the spaces between the purple rings."
16833,"As it was, he failed in Calculus D and Advanced General Psychology, though not without hope of making up lost ground before the end of the term."
16834,"But soon the dim orb passed from over the sun, and lingered down the eastern heaven."
16835,"He was living in one of the sheds, and Sawyer thought he seemed unusually worried and tremulous."
16836,"No one could read the old writing now, but things were told by word of mouth."
16837,Outshining all others was the palace of the kings of Mnar and of the lands adjacent.
16838,"""Do not degrade me in my own eyes,"" she said; ""poverty has long been my nurse; hard visaged she is, but honest."
16839,"They feared outsiders, but slowly grew accustomed to us; finally helping vastly when we beat down all the thickets and tore out all the partitions of the mansion in our search for the lurking fear."
16840,"There was a solution which he injected into the veins of dead things, and if they were fresh enough they responded in strange ways."
16841,"In the end, it is said, the island became, nine tenths of it, church."
16842,"They have no variation of principle in their investigations; at best, when urged by some unusual emergency by some extraordinary reward they extend or exaggerate their old modes of practice, without touching their principles."
16843,In conclusion: I am done forever with billets doux and am never to be met without SPECTACLES.
16844,The events that immediately followed on my arrival at Windsor changed this view of things.
16845,"This behavior, I saw plainly, was not very pleasing to Monsieur Maillard; but that gentleman said nothing, and the conversation was resumed by a very lean little man in a big wig."
16846,"The 'Hum Drum,' the 'Rowdy Dow,' and the 'Goosetherumfoodle' excel, we admit, in braggadocio, but, in all other points, give us the 'Lollipop."
16847,On earth I thought that I had well fulfilled my trial my last moments became peaceful with the reflection that I deserved no blame but you take from me that feeling My passions were there my all to me and the hopeless misery that possessed me shut all love all images of beauty from my soul Nature was to me as the blackest night if rays of loveliness ever strayed into my darkness it was only to draw bitter tears of hopeless anguish from my eyes Oh on earth what consolation is there to misery?
16848,"I also rose, and both stood motionless for a time, straining our ears as the uncanny rhythm seemed more and more to take on a vital quality."
16849,"Looking timidly around, as if she feared to be overheard, she whispered: ""I have discovered to morrow that is, to day already the to morrow is come before dawn, foreigners, Austrians, my mother's hirelings, are to carry me off to Germany, to prison, to marriage to anything, except you and my brother take me away, or soon they will be here"" I was frightened by her vehemence, and imagined some mistake in her incoherent tale; but I no longer hesitated to obey her."
16850,Never came back there can't be more'n or people living there now.
16851,"I was often tempted, when all was at peace around me, and I the only unquiet thing that wandered restless in a scene so beautiful and heavenly if I except some bat, or the frogs, whose harsh and interrupted croaking was heard only when I approached the shore often, I say, I was tempted to plunge into the silent lake, that the waters might close over me and my calamities forever."
16852,"If it flag for an instant, an oversight is committed resulting in injury or defeat."
16853,"She is accosted, and invited to enter, by a polite and voluble individual at the door."
16854,"While he considers what course to pursue, however, he becomes aware of a gentle movement in the fairy bark."
16855,The following morning Lord Raymond visited me early.
16856,"With a sigh, he declines to do so."
16857,"So at least swore, with a round oath, Professor Rub a dub, and so finally thought the illustrious Von Underduk, as he took the arm of his brother in science, and without saying a word, began to make the best of his way home to deliberate upon the measures to be adopted."
16858,"But it may be said that this man lives, and is deterred from making himself known, through dread of being charged with the murder."
16859,Will you accompany me?
16860,"My departure for Ingolstadt, which had been deferred by these events, was now again determined upon."
16861,"I was a poor, helpless, miserable wretch; I knew, and could distinguish, nothing; but feeling pain invade me on all sides, I sat down and wept."
16862,I mention his talk about angles because it suggests something Wilcox had told me of his awful dreams.
16863,You are grieved and there is grief in the expression of your countenance but it is gentle and sweet.
16864,"This did not occur, however, until the lapse of a fortnight."
16865,"In crowded cities, among cultivated plains, or on the desart mountains, pain is thickly sown, and if we can tear up but one of these noxious weeds, or more, if in its stead we can sow one seed of corn, or plant one fair flower, let that be motive sufficient against suicide."
16866,"Then I asked him if he wished to leave any keepsake or lock of hair for his family in Germany in case I should be rescued, but again he gave me that strange laugh."
16867,"I will read, and you shall listen; and so we will pass away this terrible night together."""
16868,"""In supposing it to be a bug of real gold."""
16869,"Once when the gentle rain fell I glided in a barge down a sunless stream under the earth till I reached another world of purple twilight, iridescent arbours, and undying roses."
16870,"Thus circumstanced, we shall find that we float without difficulty and without exertion."
16871,Upon reviving he spoke incoherently for some time.
16872,They were grass grown and desert.
16873,It is sufficient for me to relate events without analysing causes.
16874,"I shall cork the MS. up in a bottle, however, and throw it into the sea."
16875,Later I might sift the tale and extract some nucleus of historic allegory; just now I wished to put it out of my head.
16876,But in no regard was he more peculiar than in his personal appearance.
16877,"Man doth not yield him to the angels, nor unto death utterly, save only through the weakness of his feeble will."""
16878,"In the year , a case of living inhumation happened in France, attended with circumstances which go far to warrant the assertion that truth is, indeed, stranger than fiction."
16879,"In another second he was out of the abyss and standing tremulously on a rocky hillside bathed in intense, diffused green light."
16880,"As the sleep waker pronounced these latter words, in a feeble tone, I observed on his countenance a singular expression, which somewhat alarmed me, and induced me to awake him at once."
16881,"We have it upon good authority, that Mr. Fatquack received no less than sixty two cents and a half for his late Domestic Nouvelette, the 'Dish Clout.' ""The contributors to the number before us are Mr. Crab, the eminent editor, Snob, Mumblethumb, Fatquack, and others; but, after the inimitable compositions of the editor himself, we prefer a diamond like effusion from the pen of a rising poet who writes over the signature 'Snob' a nom de guerre which we predict will one day extinguish the radiance of 'Boz.' 'Snob,' we learn, is a Mr. Thingum Bob, Esq., sole heir of a wealthy merchant of this city, Thomas Bob, Esq., and a near relative of the distinguished Mr. Thingum."
16882,But this hesitation was only momentary.
16883,"dee"" Randolph Carter stopped in the pitch darkness and rubbed his hand across his eyes."
16884,Others snapped up what it left and ate with slavering relish.
16885,"Somehow they managed to live on independently by the products of their estate, for occasional lights glimpsed from far away hills attested their continued presence."
16886,"I saw the heavens verminous with strange flying things, and beneath them a hellish black city of giant stone terraces with impious pyramids flung savagely to the moon, and devil lights burning from unnumbered windows."
16887,"The same fault is to be found in the ""Attempt c.,"" as we originally saw it."
16888,"Besides, some months have elapsed since the commission of his crimes, and no one can conjecture to what place he has wandered or what region he may now inhabit."""
16889,"""I zay,"" said he, ""you mos pe dronk as de pig, vor zit dare and not zee me zit ere; and I zay, doo, you mos pe pigger vool as de goose, vor to dispelief vat iz print in de print."
16890,"As no resistance, beyond whooping and yelling and cock a doodling, was offered to the encroachments of the party without, the ten windows were very speedily, and almost simultaneously, broken in."
16891,We had started quietly from the village because of the reporters who still lingered about after the eldritch panic of a month before the nightmare creeping death.
16892,"Thus it was that, by a master stroke of genius, I at length consummated my triumphs by ""putting money in my purse,"" and thus may be said really and fairly to have commenced that brilliant and eventful career which rendered me illustrious, and which now enables me to say, with Chateaubriand, ""I have made history"" ""I'ai fait l'histoire."""
16893,"I am not sure from what point of view the writer in question surveyed it, nor at what time; but it could neither have been from the summit of Helseggen, nor during a storm."
16894,"I had but little notion of how the thought impressions would, if successfully conveyed, arouse an intelligent response in my brain; but I felt certain that I could detect and interpret them."
16895,"At sundown, the gale had sensibly diminished in violence, and as the sea went down with it, we still entertained faint hopes of saving ourselves in the boats."
16896,"His vesture was dabbled in blood and his broad brow, with all the features of the face, was besprinkled with the scarlet horror."
16897,If this I saw not so Rowena.
16898,The screams and struggles of the old lady during which the hair was torn from her head had the effect of changing the probably pacific purposes of the Ourang Outang into those of wrath.
16899,"Gifted and learned, he took highest honours at Oxford and seemed likely to redeem the intellectual fame of his family."
16900,"A party, of which he formed one, landed at Borneo, and passed into the interior on an excursion of pleasure."
16901,"""Precisely the one went east and the other went west, you jade, and they both have gone quite round the world."
16902,"Curiously enough, they seemed to have been chiselled badly out of proportion with their scenic background; for one of the creatures was shewn in the act of killing a whale represented as but little larger than himself."
16903,"Your own delicacy will not allow you, I am convinced, to attempt to trace me."
16904,"It executed, says Brewster, all the natural movements and gestures, it ate and drank with avidity, performed all the quick motions of the head and throat which are peculiar to the duck, and like it muddled the water which it drank with its bill."
16905,"I wandered for ever about these lovely solitudes, gathering flower after flower Ond' era pinta tutta la mia viaB singing as I might the wild melodies of the country, or occupied by pleasant day dreams."
16906,"""No, nothing peculiar,"" I said; ""nothing more, at least, than we both saw stated in the paper."""
16907,"It was acutely uncanny, even when frightful and uncanny things were common, to encounter so blankly clueless a scene after such overwhelming occurrences; and we moved about beneath the leaden, darkening sky with that tragic directionless zeal which results from a combined sense of futility and necessity of action."
16908,"And now for the first time my memory records verbal discourse, Warren addressing me at length in his mellow tenor voice; a voice singularly unperturbed by our awesome surroundings."
16909,"We presume that the present absence is a freak of the same nature, and that, at the expiration of a week, or perhaps of a month, we shall have her among us again."""
16910,But again why need this impediment have been produced?
16911,"In the meantime the balloon arose like a lark, and, soaring far away above the city, at length drifted quietly behind a cloud similar to that from which it had so oddly emerged, and was thus lost forever to the wondering eyes of the good citizens of Rotterdam."
16912,"But if his countenance was more sorrowful, his voice was more cheerful than that of his sister, especially when he addressed the old man."
16913,"I caught the night train to Arkham, and the next day talked long and earnestly with government officials there; a process I later repeated in Boston."
16914,Are there other rudimental thinking beings than man?
16915,She grew capricious; her gentle conduct towards him was exchanged for asperity and repulsive coldness.
16916,Life was then brilliant; I began to learn to hope and what brings a more bitter despair to the heart than hope destroyed?
16917,"I soon, however, grew accustomed to it, and my uneasiness wore off."
16918,"I was too much exhausted to speak, so I merely regarded him with an imploring air."
16919,On the upper stone lay a white petticoat; on the second a silk scarf.
16920,"All she did, however, was to stand up in a corner, by the fireplace, and sing out incessantly at the top of her voice, ""Cock a doodle de dooooooh"" And now came the climax the catastrophe of the drama."
16921,I concealed nothing felt that I had a right to conceal nothing from her confiding affection.
16922,"The fireplaces are large and deep, with fierce crooked looking fire dogs."
16923,From the car below you know the prospect is not so comprehensive you can see little vertically.
16924,"The stars came out, shedding their ineffectual glimmerings on the light widowed earth."
16925,"But before my fears could crystallise into action I had fallen asleep, and gazed in dreams upon the city in the valley, cold and dead under a shroud of hideous shadow."
16926,"But it is now made known that, at the very period, or about the very period, in which it is supposed that the girl was assassinated, an outrage similar in nature to that endured by the deceased, although less in extent, was perpetuated, by a gang of young ruffians, upon the person of a second young female."
16927,"Good night, my sister."
16928,"He had once been a great dandy, and people said he still wore the frock coated finery of the Edwardian age, curiously adapted to certain deformities."
16929,Spoke quick and unevenly.
16930,"Some of these were sealed and intact, but others had nearly vanished, leaving the silver handles and plates isolated amidst certain curious heaps of whitish dust."
16931,But revenge kept me alive; I dared not die and leave my adversary in being.
16932,"Night closed in, and it began to rain."
16933,"""I will tell you in a few words; but, before I begin, let me caution you that this is an affair demanding the greatest secrecy, and that I should most probably lose the position I now hold, were it known that I confided it to any one."""
16934,"I was scientifically interested in those dolphins; for though the ordinary Delphinus delphis is a cetacean mammal, unable to subsist without air, I watched one of the swimmers closely for two hours, and did not see him alter his submerged condition."
16935,"Down, down, down it came, closer and yet closer."
16936,I often thought that I would instantly return and take you along with me to some fertile island where we should live at peace for ever.
16937,Yet let me not be misapprehended.
16938,"It seemed that he was often absent from his bed, and that the creaking of his floor at certain hours of the night was remarked by the man in the room below."
16939,The cold is merely nothing.
16940,"I know not why my dreams were so wild that night; but ere the waning and fantastically gibbous moon had risen far above the eastern plain, I was awake in a cold perspiration, determined to sleep no more."
16941,"Strangers and Tegeans stood aghast, looking from the wreckage to the great, sinister tree whose aspect was so weirdly human and whose roots reached so queerly into the sculptured sepulchre of Kalos."
16942,With me were two faithful and muscular men for whom I had sent when the time came; men long associated with me in my ghastly explorations because of their peculiar fitness.
16943,"When I thought of these expressions, on the part of my friend, I confess that I felt indescribably puzzled."
16944,"Now about our Maisons de Sante, it is clear that some ignoramus has misled you."
16945,"When, however, I asked them what connexion with France or its language the house could have, they confessed themselves as frankly baffled and ignorant as I. Archer knew nothing, and all that Miss Harris could say was that an old allusion her grandfather, Dutee Harris, had heard of might have shed a little light."
16946,"But his wife had said she found a funny tin thing in one of the beds when she fixed the rooms at noon, and maybe that was it."
16947,"Fronting the entrance, and elevated a little above his companions, sat a personage who appeared to be the president of the table."
16948,"The weather was warm, and he was buried with indecent haste in one of the public cemeteries."
16949,"It was only when he was absent from me that his passion subdued him, that he clinched his hands knit his brows and with haggard looks called for death to his despair, raving wildly, untill exhausted he sank down nor was revived untill I joined him."
16950,"He is calm ""calm as a smile from Lady Bury."""
16951,"Neighbouring houses, it must be added, seemed entirely free from the noxious quality."
16952,"She uttered some words in a loud voice, and the youth joined her, who also expressed surprise."
16953,"But my revenge was sure, sudden, and complete."
16954,The place was an ancient cemetery; so ancient that I trembled at the manifold signs of immemorial years.
16955,It was dark all dark.
16956,"Abased, humbled to the dust as I then was, it is probable that I should have resented this galling language by immediate personal violence, had not my whole attention been at the moment arrested by a fact of the most startling character."
16957,The populace encored.
16958,"Perceiving the weakness of Raymond, I was afraid of ill consequences from the pressure of the crowd on his landing."
16959,They had shape for did not this star fashioned image prove it?
16960,"""I do not know,"" said the man, ""what the custom of the English may be, but it is the custom of the Irish to hate villains."""
16961,The night of the first revelation was a sultry one.
16962,"The squatters there, mostly primitive but good natured descendants of Lafitte's men, were in the grip of stark terror from an unknown thing which had stolen upon them in the night."
16963,"The countenance was a surpassingly beautiful one Those large luminous eyes that proud Grecian nose those dark luxuriant curls ""Ah"" said I, exultingly to myself, ""this is indeed the speaking image of my beloved"" I turned the reverse, and discovered the words ""Eugenie Lalande aged twenty seven years and seven months."""
16964,It is well that no explanation shall ever reach them.
16965,"Some were royalists from prejudice and ancient affection, and there were many moderately inclined who feared alike the capricious tyranny of the popular party, and the unbending despotism of the aristocrats."
16966,"Men made perilous journies to possess themselves of earth's splendid trifles, gems and gold."
16967,"For myself, however, I was mentally discussing certain topics which had formed matter for conversation between us at an earlier period of the evening; I mean the affair of the Rue Morgue, and the mystery attending the murder of Marie Rogêt."
16968,"The worst thing for a while was keeping Joe Mazurewicz quiet; for the brooding loomfixer would never stay sober, and was constantly whining and muttering about spectral and terrible things."
16969,"In respect to the grass having 'grown around and over some of them,' it is obvious that the fact could only have been ascertained from the words, and thus from the recollections, of two small boys; for these boys removed the articles and took them home before they had been seen by a third party."
16970,"ah yes upon the whole I think you had better not be too severe with the poor fellow don't flog him, Jupiter he can't very well stand it but can you form no idea of what has occasioned this illness, or rather this change of conduct?"
16971,"Had I right, for my own benefit, to inflict this curse upon everlasting generations?"
16972,"You yourself sickened, and passed into the grave; and thither your constant Una speedily followed you."
16973,"For a few moments I gazed with delight on her dark eyes, fringed by deep lashes, and her lovely lips; but presently my rage returned; I remembered that I was forever deprived of the delights that such beautiful creatures could bestow and that she whose resemblance I contemplated would, in regarding me, have changed that air of divine benignity to one expressive of disgust and affright."
16974,The police are at fault they have failed to procure the slightest clew.
16975,"My friend was more wrought upon than I had suspected, for at this touch of harmless theatricalism he started neurotically away from me and actually cried out with a sort of gulping gasp which released a strain of previous repression."
16976,"I cannot describe the rapturous delight with which I turned from political brawls at home, and the physical evils of distant countries, to my own dear home, to the selected abode of goodness and love; to peace, and the interchange of every sacred sympathy."
16977,His passage to power had been full of pain to both.
16978,Being little or nothing better than a huge foolscap turned upside down.
16979,That this could be accomplished without loss of life was in many cases conceivable.
16980,"""Merrival,"" I said, ""it is long since we have seen you you must return to Windsor with me Lady Idris desires to see you, you will not refuse her request come home with me."""
16981,"Such were the idle tales which had made the villagers leave Kilderry, and when I heard them I did not wonder that Denys Barry had refused to listen."
16982,"In his amendment he proposed, that an exception should be made in the bill in favour of any person who claimed the sovereign power in right of the earls of Windsor."
16983,"In Kate, however, I had a firm friend, and I knew it."
16984,"Monsieur Le Blanc was not unaware of the advantages to be derived from the attendance of the fair Marie in his perfumery; and his liberal proposals were accepted eagerly by the girl, although with somewhat more of hesitation by Madame."
16985,"Something beyond their experience was evidently confronting them, for so far as they could ascertain, the void below was infinite."
16986,"Remains of Them, he said the deathless Chinamen had told him, were still to be found as Cyclopean stones on islands in the Pacific."
16987,One by one these symptoms struck me; I became convinced that the moment I had so much desired was about to arrive and that I was dying.
16988,"In the tower of the great temple the priests held revels, and in pavilions without the walls the princes of neighbouring lands made merry."
16989,We took leave of them in the Protectoral Palace.
16990,"The labourers were not as happy as they might have been, for most of them seemed uneasy over some dream which they had had, yet which they tried in vain to remember."
16991,"Since the original publication of Hans Pfaall, I find that Mr. Green, of Nassau balloon notoriety, and other late aeronauts, deny the assertions of Humboldt, in this respect, and speak of a decreasing inconvenience, precisely in accordance with the theory here urged in a mere spirit of banter."
16992,There was a formula a sort of list of things to say and do which I recognised as something black and forbidden; something which I had read of before in furtive paragraphs of mixed abhorrence and fascination penned by those strange ancient delvers into the universe's guarded secrets whose decaying texts I loved to absorb.
16993,"Touching the derivation of the name Vondervotteimittiss, I confess myself, with sorrow, equally at fault."
16994,"Very suddenly, and by some inconceivable impulse, I became intensely imbued with personal interest in what was going on."
16995,"I saw Lord Raymond on his charger; a small company of officers had gathered about him; and behind was a promiscuous concourse of soldiers and subalterns, their discipline lost, their arms thrown aside; no music sounded, no banners streamed."
16996,"A wave of almost abnormal horror swept over me, and invested with a terrible but unexplainable singularity the flashlight glimpsed dust prints made by the intruder who had lately tried my door from this room."
16997,"He was thankful that the windows were just too high to permit of peering in, and drew the dark curtains carefully down over each one."
16998,"It is through the spirit of this principle, if not precisely through its letter, that modern science has resolved to calculate upon the unforeseen."
16999,"He had, he said, noticed me several times at my wanderings; and inferred that I resembled him in loving the vestiges of former years."
17000,"But such was the aspect of Crawford Tillinghast on the night his half coherent message brought me to his door after my weeks of exile; such the spectre that trembled as it admitted me, candle in hand, and glanced furtively over its shoulder as if fearful of unseen things in the ancient, lonely house set back from Benevolent Street."
17001,"This pair, shunned by all honest folk, were suspected of the most hideous practices."
17002,All the ex queen's friends were his friends; no week passed that he did not hold consultations with her at Windsor.
17003,"We come,"" he exclaimed, springing forwards, ""for what should we wait?"
17004,"I pressed it to my lips, while the rough soldiers gathered around, mourning over this worthiest prey of death, as if regret and endless lamentation could re illumine the extinguished spark, or call to its shattered prison house of flesh the liberated spirit."
17005,All that I recalled of a classic youth came to my lips as the horrors of the situation roused my deepest superstitions.
17006,"""Alas My father,"" said I, ""how little do you know me."
17007,How such a sound could have been heard in the last few hours without arousing all the Miskatonic Valley was more than the honest physician could say.
17008,"We visited the so called Elysian Fields and Avernus: and wandered through various ruined temples, baths, and classic spots; at length we entered the gloomy cavern of the Cumaean Sibyl."
17009,"If, on the other hand, he could be restored, our fame would be brilliantly and perpetually established."
17010,"At first indeed this wanton spirit played a false part appearing with sable wings gloomy countenance seemed to take a pleasure in exagerating all my miseries and as small hopes arose to snatch them from me give me in their place gigantic fears which under her fairy hand appeared close, impending unavoidable sometimes she would cruelly leave me while I was thus on the verge of madness and without consoling me leave me nought but heavy leaden sleep but at other times she would wilily link less unpleasing thoughts to these most dreadful ones before I was aware place hopes before me futile but consoling One day this lovely spirit whose name as she told me was Fantasia came to me in one of her consolotary moods her wings which seemed coloured by her tone of mind were not gay but beautiful like that of the partridge her lovely eyes although they ever burned with an unquenshable fire were shaded softened by her heavy lids the black long fringe of her eye lashes She thus addressed me You mourn for the loss of those you love."
17011,"He easily eluded me and said, ""Be calm I entreat you to hear me before you give vent to your hatred on my devoted head."
17012,"But my friend was in greater danger than I, and through my fear I felt a vague resentment that he should deem me capable of deserting him under such circumstances."
17013,"In the contemplation of the heavenly bodies it struck me forcibly that I could not distinguish a star with nearly as much precision, when I gazed on it with earnest, direct and undeviating attention, as when I suffered my eye only to glance in its vicinity alone."
17014,"By these means I got to be well known as a man to be trusted; and this is one half the battle, let me tell you, in trade."
17015,"The device is that of a single individual; and this brings us to the fact that 'between the thicket and the river, the rails of the fences were found taken down, and the ground bore evident traces of some heavy burden having been dragged along it' But would a number of men have put themselves to the superfluous trouble of taking down a fence, for the purpose of dragging through it a corpse which they might have lifted over any fence in an instant?"
17016,"It was, Johansen said, like a great barn door; and they all felt that it was a door because of the ornate lintel, threshold, and jambs around it, though they could not decide whether it lay flat like a trap door or slantwise like an outside cellar door."
17017,I learned also the names of the cottagers themselves.
17018,"She had lived for some years in an alms house, and on fine Sundays her threshold was constantly beset by a crowd, seeking her advice and listening to her admonitions."
17019,"Indeed, I cannot help admiring the animal for the excellent use he is making of his feet."""
17020,"I had the newspaper in my hand, and, as usual, had turned to the intelligence from Greece."
17021,"Raymond looked keenly at him; he could read benignity only in his gentle lineaments; he turned to me, observing with scorn my moody and stern demeanour."
17022,I removed the bed and examined the corpse.
17023,"For full three seconds I could glimpse that pandaemoniac sight, and in those seconds I saw a vista which will ever afterward torment me in dreams."
17024,"Looking up at the house from outside, he had thought at first that Gilman's window was dark; but then he had seen the faint violet glow within."
17025,"If you can never be happy, can you never bestow happiness?"
17026,"Certainly the Ryland that advanced towards us now, bore small resemblance to the powerful, ironical, seemingly fearless canvasser for the first rank among Englishmen."
17027,He is alone with the ghost of the departed.
17028,"In the end, though, luck favoured us; for one day we heard of an almost ideal case in the potter's field; a brawny young workman drowned only the morning before in Sumner's Pond, and buried at the town's expense without delay or embalming."
17029,The alienists soon agreed that abnormal dreams were the foundation of the trouble; dreams whose vividness could for a time completely dominate the waking mind of this basically inferior man.
17030,"Henry Wheeler strained his eye at the telescope, but saw only the three grotesquely silhouetted human figures on the peak, all moving their arms furiously in strange gestures as their incantation drew near its culmination."
17031,"His remains, notwithstanding the troubled state of Italy, were taken to Ravenna for interment; but being interred in the suburb of Classe, were exhumed and ridiculed by the Lombard Duke of Spoleto, who took his skull to King Autharis for use as a wassail bowl."
17032,What prompted me then to disturb the memory of the buried dead?
17033,"""Sit down, my friend,"" said Dupin."
17034,Know you not how the secret of Alchemy was solved?
17035,"Of all the women whom I have ever known, she, the outwardly calm, the ever placid Ligeia, was the most violently a prey to the tumultuous vultures of stern passion."
17036,"As the day progressed, the ground lost some of its stickiness, and seemed likely to dry sufficiently for travelling purposes in a short time."
17037,The atmosphere was intolerably close.
17038,"This tribe, after destroying most of the edifices and killing the live beings, had carried off the stuffed goddess which had been the object of their quest; the white ape goddess which the strange beings worshipped, and which was held by Congo tradition to be the form of one who had reigned as a princess among those beings."
17039,"In time the hole grew so large that he ventured to try his body in it now and then, shifting about so that the coffins beneath him rocked and creaked."
17040,"At all events methought that the wound could be healed; and, if they remained together, it would be so."
17041,"""I arose,"" continued Bedloe, regarding the Doctor with an air of profound astonishment ""I arose, as you say, and descended into the city."
17042,You are the only one we can trust.
17043,"When she perceived the wild or pathetic appeal of his expressive countenance, she would relent, and for a while resume her ancient kindness."
17044,"By the following fact, some color was given to the suspicion thus thrown upon Beauvais."
17045,"A singular alteration took place in regard to the direction of the balloon, and although fully anticipated, afforded me the most unequivocal delight."
17046,"But now my mother, or, if you will, my mother's lessons, awaken within me."
17047,"In attempting ourselves an explanation of the Automaton, we will, in the first place, endeavor to show how its operations are effected, and afterwards describe, as briefly as possible, the nature of the observations from which we have deduced our result."
17048,His third was the contempt of ambition.
17049,"Yet it was less painful to see him thus, than to find him fulfilling the animal functions uninterruptedly, his mind sick the while."
17050,"There were times, indeed, when I thought his unceasingly agitated mind was laboring with some oppressive secret, to divulge which he struggled for the necessary courage."
17051,"I was a little dazed by this coincidence, but did not become terrified."
17052,"If they did, my stratagem must have deceived them, for they passed on across the moonlit space without varying their course meanwhile croaking and jabbering in some hateful guttural patois I could not identify."
17053,He was a boy of singular talent and fancy.
17054,"EVERYBODY knows, in a general way, that the finest place in the world is or, alas, was the Dutch borough of Vondervotteimittiss."
17055,And was I really as mad as the whole world would believe me to be if I disclosed the object of my suspicions?
17056,"I replied in the same language, with a feeble voice, ""I believe I am; but if it be all true, if indeed I did not dream, I am sorry that I am still alive to feel this misery and horror."""
17057,"Horrified, he had taken to the woods in a vague effort to escape from the scene of what must have been his crime."
17058,But soon I endeavoured to extract patience for her from the ideas she suggested.
17059,"A letter came unawares, Perdita read it."
17060,"""This account rather alarmed us, and we continued to search for him until night fell, when Elizabeth conjectured that he might have returned to the house."
17061,"I was indifferent, therefore, to my school fellows in general; but I united myself in the bonds of the closest friendship to one among them."
17062,"Seems they hankered arter mixin' with the folks, an' havin' j'int ceremonies on the big days May Eve an' Hallowe'en."
17063,I have been miserably mistaken in imagining that I could conquer my love for you; I never can.
17064,"When happy, inanimate nature had the power of bestowing on me the most delightful sensations."
17065,"Once I went up to the garret during theatre hours, when Zann was away, but the door was locked."
17066,"He was rather a ""find"" a rich and high spirited youth who would ""go the limit"" in anything he undertook at least, that was the verdict of Pete Schultz, Sheehan's ""runner"", who had come across the boy at Lawrence College, in the small town of Appleton, Wisconsin."
17067,"The scenery which presented itself on all sides, although scarcely entitled to be called grand, had about it an indescribable and to me a delicious aspect of dreary desolation."
17068,"Had my uncle, in his latter years, become credulous of the most superficial impostures?"
17069,"It was his view that only our normal, objective experiences possess any aesthetic significance, and that it is the province of the artist not so much to rouse strong emotion by action, ecstasy, and astonishment, as to maintain a placid interest and appreciation by accurate, detailed transcripts of every day affairs."
17070,"Now this shape was peculiar; and no sooner had I seen it, than I took credit to myself for the accuracy of my guessing."
17071,Ryland had shewn that he preferred him.
17072,"As it was, the sweet girl's generous nature was roused to defend, and ally herself with, my despised cause."
17073,Yet I soon subordinated all my fears to my growing curiosity and fascination.
17074,"I have thought proper to premise thus much, lest the incredible tale I have to tell should be considered rather the raving of a crude imagination, than the positive experience of a mind to which the reveries of fancy have been a dead letter and a nullity."
17075,Farewell I must now leave you for a few hours.
17076,"I replied in a calm voice but how far from calm was the thought imaged by my still words ""Never I can never consent that Lady Idris should be united to one who does not love her."" ""Because you love her yourself."""
17077,"One night as I sat, half stupified, in a den of more than infamy, my attention was suddenly drawn to some black object, reposing upon the head of one of the immense hogsheads of Gin, or of Rum, which constituted the chief furniture of the apartment."
17078,"Old Bugs, springing up from the crouching position in which he had hitherto been, leaped at the youth and dashed from his hands the uplifted glass, almost simultaneously attacking the tray of bottles and glasses with his mop, and scattering the contents upon the floor in a confusion of odoriferous fluid and broken bottles and tumblers."
17079,"Ah, dear sister, how can I answer this question?"
17080,"They did not see that good and evil and beauty and ugliness are only ornamental fruits of perspective, whose sole value lies in their linkage to what chance made our fathers think and feel, and whose finer details are different for every race and culture."
17081,"Outsiders visit Dunwich as seldom as possible, and since a certain season of horror all the signboards pointing toward it have been taken down."
17082,"Later, by virtue of its sheer impressiveness, it had found subconscious expression in dreams, in the bas relief, and in the terrible statue I now beheld; so that his imposture upon my uncle had been a very innocent one."
17083,As the dead man was thrown overboard there occurred two incidents which created much disturbance amongst the crew.
17084,"""The moon's actual distance from the earth was the first thing to be attended to."
17085,"He is, perhaps, the most really energetic human being now alive but that is only when nobody sees him."
17086,"And the heart of that plotting was in The Street, whose crumbling houses teemed with alien makers of discord and echoed with the plans and speeches of those who yearned for the appointed day of blood, flame, and crime."
17087,"Wal, even ef I hain't told nobody nothin' yet, I'm a goin' to naow You jest set still an' listen to me, boy this is what I ain't never told nobody. . . ."
17088,"Thus this towering spirit who had excited interest and high expectation in all who knew and could value him became at once, as it were, extinct."
17089,"Dr. Moneypenny says that S. stands for stale, and that D. U. K. spells duck, but it don't, that S. D. U. K. stands for Stale Duck and not for Lord Brougham's society but then Dr. Moneypenny is such a queer man that I am never sure when he is telling me the truth."
17090,"The orphan and neglected son of Verney, was on the eve of being linked to the mechanism of society by a golden chain, and to enter into all the duties and affections of life."
17091,"There certainly is a strange kind of streak in the Innsmouth folks today I don't know how to explain it, but it sort of makes you crawl."
17092,Only the din of street cars in the thoroughfare below proved a serious annoyance.
17093,"The foreigners whom we had among us, who had fled from the plague in their own country, now saw their last asylum invaded; and, fear making them garrulous, they described to eager listeners the miseries they had beheld in cities visited by the calamity, and gave fearful accounts of the insidious and irremediable nature of the disease."
17094,"That was Darius Peck, the nonagenarian, whose grave was not far from the tomb."
17095,"The words ""gem"" and ""bijou,"" however, used in reference to my composition, struck me as being, in some degree, feeble, and seemed to me to be deficient in force."
17096,Elizabeth's heart rending eloquence failed to move the judges from their settled conviction in the criminality of the saintly sufferer.
17097,"The poor animal recognised me, licked my hand, crept close to its lord, and died."
17098,"He saw that Rice, from the party's point of vantage above and behind the entity, had an excellent chance of spreading the potent powder with marvellous effect."
17099,"Sometimes he and Paul Choynski and Landlord Dombrowski thought they saw that light seeping out of cracks in the sealed loft above the young gentleman's room, but they had all agreed not to talk about that."
17100,"There he stayed long, gazing out over the bright harbour where the ripples sparkled beneath an unknown sun, and where rode lightly the galleys from far places over the water."
17101,He loved her with passion and her tenderness had a charm for him that would not permit him to think of aught but her.
17102,The poet says that all through the hours before dawn he beheld sordid ruins but indistinctly in the glare of the arc lights; that there loomed above the wreckage another picture wherein he could descry moonlight and fair houses and elms and oaks and maples of dignity.
17103,"Pratol on this very day, last year, to pay my parting respects."""
17104,"Through his puzzlement a voice piped, and he started again at its familiarity after long years."
17105,But I cannot possibly comprehend the particulars of this frightful mystery.
17106,"If you really say this, my questions are answered and all my doubts satisfied."
17107,"For the nebulous utterances concerning a nameless, unsuspected race of jungle hybrids he had a peculiar feeling of mingled terror and attraction; speculating on the possible basis of such a fancy, and seeking to obtain light among the more recent data gleaned by his great grandfather and Samuel Seaton amongst the Ongas."
17108,"And swarming loathsomely on aërial galleries I saw the yellow, squint eyed people of that city, robed horribly in orange and red, and dancing insanely to the pounding of fevered kettle drums, the clatter of obscene crotala, and the maniacal moaning of muted horns whose ceaseless dirges rose and fell undulantly like the waves of an unhallowed ocean of bitumen."
17109,"I did it for so long that life faded to a far memory, and I became one with the moles and grubs of nighted depths."
17110,"You men know that those Whateleys were wizards well, this thing is a thing of wizardry, and must be put down by the same means."
17111,"We cannot calculate on his forces like that of an engine; and, though an impulse draw with a forty horse power at what appears willing to yield to one, yet in contempt of calculation the movement is not effected."
17112,That very evening I fell upon my knees at the feet of my father.
17113,Her voice was suffocated with sobs.
17114,"On being charged with the fact, the poor girl confirmed the suspicion in a great measure by her extreme confusion of manner."
17115,There are six lights as we have said before in all.
17116,Of his methods in the intervening five years I dare not speak.
17117,"After a time he became noticeably unbalanced, gazing for hours at his ivory image and weaving fanciful stories of the lost and forgotten things under the sea."
17118,"One day near noon, after a profound sleep begun in a whiskey debauch at about five of the previous afternoon, the man had roused himself most suddenly; with ululations so horrible and unearthly that they brought several neighbours to his cabin a filthy sty where he dwelt with a family as indescribable as himself."
17119,Dr. Houghton drew shrunken lids over the glazing grey eyes as the tumult of birds faded imperceptibly to silence.
17120,"I had been travelling for some time amongst the people of the Miskatonic Valley in quest of certain genealogical data; and from the remote, devious, and problematical nature of my course, had deemed it convenient to employ a bicycle despite the lateness of the season."
17121,"This challenge being accepted, a small table is prepared for the antagonist, and placed close by the rope, but on the spectators' side of it, and so situated as not to prevent the company from obtaining a full view of the Automaton."
17122,Chapter Clerval then put the following letter into my hands.
17123,"Yet could I, in justice, or even in possibility, refuse this demand?"
17124,"The possession of these treasures gave me extreme delight; I now continually studied and exercised my mind upon these histories, whilst my friends were employed in their ordinary occupations."
17125,"The whole company at once started to their feet, and, with the exception of myself and Ritzner, took their departure."
17126,"There the scions of a conquering race indeed flourished free from the restrictions of their fellows, but cowered in an appalling slavery to the dismal phantasms of their own minds."
17127,Soon afterwards I bade him farewell.
17128,Possibly Gilman ought not to have studied so hard.
17129,All that had so long engaged my attention suddenly grew despicable.
17130,"It was in the house of Dexter, in the northern part of the town near the present intersection of North Main and Olney Streets, on the occasion of Canonchet's raid of March , , during King Philip's War; and the astute sachem, recognising it at once as a thing of singular venerableness and dignity, sent it as a symbol of alliance to a faction of the Pequots in Connecticut with whom he was negotiating."
17131,"The grocery boy had prepared me for it, yet the reality left me none the less bewildered and disturbed."
17132,A word with any outsider was a relief to him.
17133,"The ""Goosetherumfoodle"" deeply ""regretted this very natural accident,"" and promised, moreover, an insertion of the genuine ""Hey Diddle Diddle"" in the very next number of the Magazine."
17134,"But after all, the attic was not the most terrible part of the house."
17135,"There are the stately avenues and retirements of Versailles; Italian terraces; and a various mixed old English style, which bears some relation to the domestic Gothic or English Elizabethan architecture."
17136,A murmur of surprise and horror ran through the assembly.
17137,"I resolved to be more cautious, more reserved."
17138,"By the aid of these we then busied our souls in dreams reading, writing, or conversing, until warned by the clock of the advent of the true Darkness."
17139,"And do I dare to ask of you to undertake my pilgrimage, to endure the hardships that I have undergone?"
17140,"You were hereafter to be hailed as the benefactors of your species, your names adored as belonging to brave men who encountered death for honour and the benefit of mankind."
17141,"She thought he did well to assert his own will, but she wished that will to have been more intelligible to the multitude."
17142,"He would sputter and fume, exploding into sesquipedalian admonitions and strange oaths, and animated by a frightful earnestness which brought a shudder to more than one drug racked mind in the crowded room."
17143,"I must go, Lionel the Gods will it; and I must."
17144,"For an instant the ship was befouled by an acrid and blinding green cloud, and then there was only a venomous seething astern; where God in heaven the scattered plasticity of that nameless sky spawn was nebulously recombining in its hateful original form, whilst its distance widened every second as the Alert gained impetus from its mounting steam."
17145,"Born on Candlemas nine months after May Eve of , when the talk about the queer earth noises reached clear to Arkham What walked on the mountains that May Night?"
17146,I was silent: all was silent except the roaring of the sea which became louder and more dreadful.
17147,"He showed unparalleled malignity and selfishness in evil; he destroyed my friends; he devoted to destruction beings who possessed exquisite sensations, happiness, and wisdom; nor do I know where this thirst for vengeance may end."
17148,"I inquired the way to the inn, but no one replied."
17149,"Thus, with me, yesterday was Sunday thus, with you, to day is Sunday and thus, with Pratt, to morrow will be Sunday."
17150,"I well knew that if any other had communicated such a relation to me, I should have looked upon it as the ravings of insanity."
17151,"The expression on its features was repellent in the extreme, savouring at once of death, bestiality, and malevolence."
17152,"Onct I tried suthin' funny here, young Sir, don't git skeert all I done was ter look at the picter afore I kilt the sheep for market killin' sheep was kinder more fun arter lookin' at it "" The tone of the old man now sank very low, sometimes becoming so faint that his words were hardly audible."
17153,"A chess player, for example, does the one without effort at the other."
17154,"He was a Turkish merchant and had inhabited Paris for many years, when, for some reason which I could not learn, he became obnoxious to the government."
17155,"He could not recall having seen the original of this thing except in his own dream bas relief, but the outlines had formed themselves insensibly under his hands."
17156,"That I had previously overestimated our depth, I was sure; but none the less we must still be deep enough to make these phenomena remarkable."
17157,"Those churches were very odd all violently disavowed by their respective denominations elsewhere, and apparently using the queerest kind of ceremonials and clerical vestments."
17158,There was a rope about the animal's neck.
17159,"For many days I have longed to disclose the mysterious presentiments that weigh on me, although I fear that you will ridicule them."
17160,"The grand jury rejected the bill, on its being proved that I was on the Orkney Islands at the hour the body of my friend was found; and a fortnight after my removal I was liberated from prison."
17161,During three months I have been employed in this task.
17162,You do not question me properly.
17163,"Our vessel was a beautiful ship of about four hundred tons, copper fastened, and built at Bombay of Malabar teak."
17164,"Very suddenly Barzai went out of Atal's sight, scaling a hideous cliff that seemed to bulge outward and block the path for any climber not inspired of earth's gods."
17165,"From the moment Perdita had sufficiently recovered herself to form any plan of action, she had laid one down, which now she prepared to follow."
17166,"The words ""strange"" ""singular"" and other similar expressions, excited my curiosity."
17167,"A wild luxuriance of foliage, utterly unknown before, burst out upon every vegetable thing."
17168,"At length, upon a suggestion of my uncle's, I decided to try the spot nocturnally; and one stormy midnight ran the beams of an electric torch over the mouldy floor with its uncanny shapes and distorted, half phosphorescent fungi."
17169,The disillusion had been gradual.
17170,A middle aged gentleman arrives in town from parts unknown.
17171,"It would have been blasphemous to leave such bones in the world, so I went back with a sack and took them to the tomb behind the house."
17172,"It was indeed somewhat familiar, for the unusual part was superimposed upon the usual terrestrial scene much as a cinema view may be thrown upon the painted curtain of a theatre."
17173,"This old woman had reached her hundredth year; her skin was shrivelled, her form was bent and lost in extreme decrepitude; but as still from year to year she continued in existence, out living many younger and stronger, she began to feel as if she were to live for ever."
17174,"I began to get uneasy, and worked away with all my might, for I verily believe the idiots supposed that I had entered into a compact with the devil, and that, in short, what I was now doing was nothing better than it should be."
17175,"The Persian, Arabic, and Sanskrit languages engaged his attention, and I was easily induced to enter on the same studies."
17176,"Opposite the large window was an enormous Dutch fireplace with scriptural tiles representing the prodigal son, and opposite the narrow window was a spacious bed built into the wall."
17177,"Here I may even cease to repine, and may add my tardy consent to the decree which has taken him from me."
17178,"I mean Moissart and Voissart; and for de matter of dat, I mean Croissart and Froisart, too, if I only tink proper to mean it."
17179,"Guileless himself, Adrian feared no deceit."
17180,"Thus, while Raymond had been wrapt in visions of power and fame, while he looked forward to entire dominion over the elements and the mind of man, the territory of his own heart escaped his notice; and from that unthought of source arose the mighty torrent that overwhelmed his will, and carried to the oblivious sea, fame, hope, and happiness."
17181,"He is irrecoverably mad."""
17182,"Zaffre, digested in aqua regia, and diluted with four times its weight of water, is sometimes employed; a green tint results."
17183,"""By ten o'clock I found that I had very little to occupy my immediate attention."
17184,"The person of the stranger let me call him by this title, who to all the world was still a stranger the person of the stranger is one of these subjects."
17185,"As to the how of the surrender, no language can be more explicit."
17186,"I was afeard never did no pryin' arter that awful night, an' never see one of them clost to in all my life."
17187,"Ledges and outcroppings of rock afforded fairly easy foot holds for a descent, whilst after a drop of a few hundred feet, the declivity became very gradual."
17188,"His chief delight, however, was found in the perusal of an exceedingly rare and curious book in quarto Gothic the manual of a forgotten church the Vigiliae Mortuorum secundum Chorum Ecclesiae Maguntinae."
17189,This wall had gates of iron.
17190,"For our own purpose, therefore, if not for the purpose of justice, it is indispensable that our first step should be the determination of the identity of the corpse with the Marie Rogêt who is missing."
17191,"Twelve years after succeeding to his title he married the daughter of his gamekeeper, a person said to be of gypsy extraction, but before his son was born joined the navy as a common sailor, completing the general disgust which his habits and mesalliance had begun."
17192,A spectator would have thought of Francis and Charles.
17193,"They consider only their own ideas of ingenuity; and, in searching for anything hidden, advert only to the modes in which they would have hidden it."
17194,"Was there indeed anarchy in the sublime universe of Adrian's thoughts, did madness scatter the well appointed legions, and was he no longer the lord of his own soul?"
17195,"She leads them to truth wisdom untill the time comes when they shall be fitted for the journey through the universe which all must one day undertake farewell And now, gentlest reader I must beg your indulgence I am a being too weak to record the words of Diotima her matchless wisdom heavenly eloquence."
17196,"I staggered onward for some time, when I stumbled and fell."
17197,"I felt that those walls and overhanging gables of mildewed brick and fungous plaster and timber with fishy, eye like, diamond paned windows that leered could hardly desist from advancing and crushing me . . ."
17198,"Walls, columns, and architraves of living fire blazed effulgently around the spot where I seemed to float in air; extending upward to an infinitely high vaulted dome of indescribable splendour."
17199,"Sordid care, avaunt menial labours, and pains, slight in themselves, but too gigantic for our exhausted strength, shall make no part of our ephemeral existences."
17200,"The villages were decorated by triumphal arches of greenery by day, and lamps by night; tapestry waved from the windows, the ground was strewed with flowers, and the name of Raymond, joined to that of Greece, was echoed in the Evive of the peasant crowd."
17201,"Of great size and cunning workmanship must the statue be, for it was to form a wonder of nations and a goal of travellers."
17202,"Firmly though respectfully they signified their refusal to revisit the chasm, or indeed to work further in the mine until it might be sealed."
17203,"In the morning it had been underfoot; afternoon found it rising in the southeast, and now it was roughly south but wheeling toward the west."
17204,"I can see it a little when I make the Voorish sign or blow the powder of Ibn Ghazi at it, and it is near like them at May Eve on the Hill."
17205,"Of his vast collection of strange, rare books on forbidden subjects I have read all that are written in the languages of which I am master; but these are few as compared with those in languages I cannot understand."
17206,"Early in the day, Argyropylo was wounded dangerously, and Raymond assumed the command of the whole army."
17207,Mr. 's article concludes with the following words.
17208,"This time, however, they seemed to proceed from persons rapidly approaching."
17209,"The simple character of those inductions by which he had disentangled the mystery never having been explained even to the Prefect, or to any other individual than myself, of course it is not surprising that the affair was regarded as little less than miraculous, or that the Chevalier's analytical abilities acquired for him the credit of intuition."
17210,"We all know what is meant by ""damning with faint praise,"" and, on the other hand, who could fail seeing through the covert purpose of the ""Daddy"" that of glorifying with feeble abuse?"
17211,"His principal topics were those of the day, and nothing that fell from him led me to suspect his scientific attainments."
17212,"I paint in the cellar, where the inspiration is thickest, but I've other rooms furnished on the ground floor."
17213,"She was dressed, however, in exquisite taste and then I had no doubt that she had captivated my friend's heart by the more enduring graces of the intellect and soul."
17214,"My pressure took the opener off guard, for the thing shut as I pushed, so that I could slip the well conditioned bolt as I had done with the other door."
17215,"Every face but one shewed nobility and reverence, but that one reflected the mockery of the pit."
17216,"How delicious to me were the words of his letter that concerned me: ""I cannot tell you,"" it said, ""how ardently I desire to see my Mathilda."
17217,"Schlumberger was suddenly taken ill, and during his illness there was no exhibition of the Chess Player."
17218,"Shall I go alone, or will you accompany me?"""
17219,"She had, in her own youth, been deeply and permanently impressed with the horror of dissipation by the case of one to whom she had for a time been engaged."
17220,"The Town Council are all very little, round, oily, intelligent men, with big saucer eyes and fat double chins, and have their coats much longer and their shoe buckles much bigger than the ordinary inhabitants of Vondervotteimittiss."
17221,"On this occasion he crawled in as usual, lighting his way with matches filched from the sitting room match safe, and edging through the final crevice with an eagerness hard to explain even to himself."
17222,"At this point, after a series of sweeps, it turned off at right angles and pursued a generally southern direction meandering as it went until it became lost in a small lake of irregular figure although roughly oval, that lay gleaming near the lower extremity of the vale."
17223,"Flowers, indeed, of gorgeous colours and delicate odour formed the sole mere decoration of the apartment."
17224,"Until now, my savage habits had done me no radical mischief; my physical powers had grown up and flourished under their influence, and my mind, undergoing the same discipline, was imbued with all the hardy virtues."
17225,"""Let us now transport ourselves, in fancy, to this chamber."
17226,"The playing grew fantastic, delirious, and hysterical, yet kept to the last the qualities of supreme genius which I knew this strange old man possessed."
17227,The anniversary was at hand of the exaltation of Raymond to the office of Protector; and it was customary to celebrate this day by a splendid festival.
17228,Their roots a hideous sight were clotted with fragments of the flesh of the scalp sure token of the prodigious power which had been exerted in uprooting perhaps half a million of hairs at a time.
17229,"We could not have made head against the strong wind of yesterday; but, by ascending, we might have got out of its influence, if requisite."
17230,"He rode over to S , immediately after breakfast, and left word that he would not be in town again for a week."""
17231,"As I spoke, a dark gloom spread over my listener's countenance."
17232,"Many a night, just at midnight, when all the world slept, it has welled up from my own bosom, deepening, with its dreadful echo, the terrors that distracted me."
17233,"Now, this is precisely what ought to be the case, if we suppose a resistance experienced from the comet from an extremely rare ethereal medium pervading the regions of its orbit."
17234,"Whether a modern student could ever gain similar powers from mathematical research alone, was still to be seen."
17235,"He had been struck by the fortitude and beauty of the ill fated Greek; and, when her constant tenderness towards him unfolded itself, he asked with astonishment, by what act of his he had merited this passionate and unrequited love."
17236,"She did not in the least resemble either of her children; her black and sparkling eye, lit up by pride, was totally unlike the blue lustre, and frank, benignant expression of either Adrian or Idris."
17237,"Again I am a solitary man; and I will become again, as in my early years, a wanderer, a soldier of fortune."
17238,Withdrawing the key I stepped back from the recess.
17239,I was as a solitary spot among mountains shut in on all sides by steep black precipices; where no ray of heat could penetrate; and from which there was no outlet to sunnier fields.
17240,Namby pamby sort ever heard of her?
17241,"All I now ask, all your mother, Idris, requests is, that you will not see this upstart during the interval of one month."""
17242,The evident motion of our system in the heavens was strange to say referred to an orbit about a prodigious star in the centre of the galaxy.
17243,"In the Land of Sona Nyl there is neither time nor space, neither suffering nor death; and there I dwelt for many aeons."
17244,"The extra state room, originally engaged for this girl during her mistress' life, was now merely retained."
17245,"No doubt I now grew very pale; but I talked more fluently, and with a heightened voice."
17246,For a few minutes I remained wrapped in the profoundest meditation.
17247,"I was bewildered, in a cloud of wonder and horror."
17248,I resolved at length to accompany Perdita.
17249,"Woe befall the day, she thought, woe, tears, and mourning betide the hour, that gave Raymond another hope than love, another wish than my devotion; and thrice joyful the moment when he shall be restored to me God knows, I put my trust in his vows, and believe his asserted faith but for that, I would not seek what I am now resolved to attain."
17250,"He grasped my hand affectionately: ""Thank you,"" he said, ""you have relieved me from a painful dilemma, and are, as you ever were, the best of my friends."
17251,He puts out his candle.
17252,"""But it is true that I am a wretch."
17253,There was the poodle.
17254,"""Yes, I perceive; and now there is only one point which puzzles me."
17255,"Hear him not; call on the names of William, Justine, Clerval, Elizabeth, my father, and of the wretched Victor, and thrust your sword into his heart."
17256,"The bog was the cause of all these troubles, as Barry told me the night I came to the castle."
17257,"But your sad mien never alters; your pulses beat and you breathe, yet you seem already to belong to another world; and sometimes, pray pardon my wild thoughts, when you touch my hand I am surprised to find your hand warm when all the fire of life seems extinct within you."
17258,"He discovered the name of the spot whither my father had retreated, and where he died; he learnt the existence of his orphan children; and during the short interval between his arrival at Ulswater and our meeting in the park, he had been occupied in making inquiries concerning us, and arranging a variety of plans for our benefit, preliminary to his introducing himself to our notice."
17259,At her right hand sat a diminutive young lady whom she appeared to patronise.
17260,"This latter kind of silk was designated as silk buckingham, on account of its superior durability, and was usually prepared for use by being varnished with a solution of gum caoutchouc a substance which in some respects must have resembled the gutta percha now in common use."
17261,"But Armitage had a sound physique despite his seventy three years, and slept off his disorder that night without developing any real fever."
17262,"He was found stiff, his hands clenched, and pressed against his breast."
17263,His Grace's brain reeled as he glanced upward.
17264,"The instant he opened his eyes he knew something was terribly wrong, for he was back in his old garret room with the slanting wall and ceiling, sprawled on the now unmade bed."
17265,No; I am not so selfish.
17266,"But this difficulty might be easily obviated, either by elevating the seats of the company, or by turning the end of the box towards them during the game."
17267,"Still I think, that time, and even absence, may restore her to me."
17268,Like a true Frenchwoman as she was she had obeyed the frank dictates of her reason the generous impulses of her nature despising the conventional pruderies of the world.
17269,It was situated against the back of the cottage and surrounded on the sides which were exposed by a pig sty and a clear pool of water.
17270,"To credit these whisperings of rural grandmothers, I now insisted, argued a faith in the existence of spectral substances on the earth apart from and subsequent to their material counterparts."
17271,"The autumn was warm and rainy: the infirm and sickly died off happier they: many young people flushed with health and prosperity, made pale by wasting malady, became the inhabitants of the grave."
17272,"For its recovery, she offers some forty or fifty dollars reward giving, in her advertisement, a very minute description of the gem, and of its settings, and declaring that, on its restoration at No. so and so, in such and such Avenue, the reward would be paid instanter, without a single question being asked."
17273,"Did you ever behold streets so insufferably narrow, or houses so miraculously tall?"
17274,"Elwood was out late that night, and Gilman waited up for him."
17275,"He was one of those very few whom fortune favours from their birth; on whom she bestows all gifts of intellect and person with a profusion that knew no bounds, and whom under her peculiar protection, no imperfection however slight, or disappointment however transitory has leave to touch."
17276,"I had known Denys Barry well in America, where he had grown rich, and had congratulated him when he bought back the old castle by the bog at sleepy Kilderry."
17277,"""You scoundrel,"" said Legrand, hissing out the syllables from between his clenched teeth ""you infernal black villain speak, I tell you answer me this instant, without prevarication which which is your left eye?"" ""Oh, my golly, Massa Will aint dis here my lef eye for sartain?"" roared the terrified Jupiter, placing his hand upon his right organ of vision, and holding it there with a desperate pertinacity, as if in immediate dread of his master's attempt at a gouge."
17278,"God knows it was not of this world or no longer of this world yet to my horror I saw in its eaten away and bone revealing outlines a leering, abhorrent travesty on the human shape; and in its mouldy, disintegrating apparel an unspeakable quality that chilled me even more."
17279,"Alas, it is too late We stand upon the brink of a precipice."
17280,"We did, however, deem ourselves justified in assuming that it was a living organism highly susceptible to electrical storms; and although certain of the stories suggested wings, we believed that its aversion for open spaces made land locomotion a more probable theory."
17281,"The whole company, indeed, seemed now deeply to feel that in the costume and bearing of the stranger neither wit nor propriety existed."
17282,"Often, when wearied by a toilsome march, I persuaded myself that I was dreaming until night should come and that I should then enjoy reality in the arms of my dearest friends."
17283,My duties towards the beings of my own species had greater claims to my attention because they included a greater proportion of happiness or misery.
17284,"why cannot the doctors give me something to make me sleep, or truly calm my brain when it thunders?"
17285,"It was only a minute's work, and then came a sixpence."
17286,Once more I say that I have no clear idea of our object on that night.
17287,"At the soirée of the lovely widow, Mrs. Kathleen O'Trump, I was confident that I should meet with no similar disappointment."
17288,"""Yes,"" said Elizabeth, ""I will go, although she is guilty; and you, Victor, shall accompany me; I cannot go alone."""
17289,"But I forget that I am moralizing in the most interesting part of my tale, and your looks remind me to proceed."
17290,"It might have been midnight, or perhaps earlier, or later, for I had taken no note of time, when a sob, low, gentle, but very distinct, startled me from my revery."
17291,"I have no one near me, gentle yet courageous, possessed of a cultivated as well as of a capacious mind, whose tastes are like my own, to approve or amend my plans."
17292,"""Tousand teufel"" growled the Elector of Bluddennuff."
17293,"He'll take the hint and be off, you may depend upon it."""
17294,"Then I saw a small black aperture, felt a ghoulish wind of ice, and smelled the charnel bowels of a putrescent earth."
17295,"The later action of the government, after my frantic appeals, would tend to confirm it as a monstrous truth; but could not an hallucination have been repeated under the quasi hypnotic spell of that ancient, haunted, and shadowed town?"
17296,"Not so Raymond; he was an enchanter, whose reign was for ever undiminished; a king whose power never was suspended: follow him through the details of common life, still the same charm of grace and majesty adorned him; nor could he be despoiled of the innate deification with which nature had invested him."
17297,"While I was pondering upon what was best to be done, Jupiter's voice was again heard."
17298,"Admitting the rule, and this Le Moniteur does not deny, insisting merely upon its exceptions, the argument of L'Etoile is suffered to remain in full force; for this argument does not pretend to involve more than a question of the probability of the body having risen to the surface in less than three days; and this probability will be in favor of L'Etoile's position until the instances so childishly adduced shall be sufficient in number to establish an antagonistical rule."
17299,"When we were together I spoke little yet my selfish mind was sometimes borne away by the rapid course of his ideas; I would lift my eyes with momentary brilliancy until memories that never died and seldom slept would recur, and a tear would dim them."
17300,"AS it is well known that the 'wise men' came 'from the East,' and as Mr. Touch and go Bullet head came from the East, it follows that Mr. Bullet head was a wise man; and if collateral proof of the matter be needed, here we have it Mr. B. was an editor."
17301,"And then, hour after hour, would I linger by her side, and dwell upon the music of her voice, until at length its melody was tainted with terror, and there fell a shadow upon my soul, and I grew pale, and shuddered inwardly at those too unearthly tones."
17302,"By Their smell can men sometimes know Them near, but of Their semblance can no man know, saving only in the features of those They have begotten on mankind; and of those are there many sorts, differing in likeness from man's truest eidolon to that shape without sight or substance which is Them."
17303,"I motioned him to take up the letter, while I walked up and down the room in the extremest agitation."
17304,"Upon the usurpation of Vitiges, Ibidus fell into disgrace and was for a time imprisoned; but the coming of the Byzantine Roman army under Belisarius soon restored him to liberty and honours."
17305,"In this rack, which had three or four compartments, were five or six visiting cards and a solitary letter."
17306,Death and disease level all men.
17307,"Every succeeding wave of thought overwhelmed me with new terror, for, alas I well, too well understood that to think, in my situation, was to be lost."
17308,"Chantilly was a quondam cobbler of the Rue St. Denis, who, becoming stage mad, had attempted the rôle of Xerxes, in Crébillon's tragedy so called, and been notoriously Pasquinaded for his pains."
17309,She had no experience beyond her father's cottage; and the mansion of the lord of the manor was the chiefest type of grandeur she could conceive.
17310,"In his boyhood he had revelled through long visits there, and had found weird marvels in the woods beyond the orchard."
17311,"Let it suffice to say, that at the period of which I speak, there existed, in the interior of Hungary, a settled although hidden belief in the doctrines of the Metempsychosis."
17312,"In the name of all the vrows and devils in Rotterdam, what could it possibly portend?"
17313,A new species would bless me as its creator and source; many happy and excellent natures would owe their being to me.
17314,"they wanted to mix like they done with the Kanakys, an' he fer one didn't feel baound to stop 'em."
17315,"Although completely water logged, yet, as her masts had gone by the board, she rose, after a minute, heavily from the sea, and, staggering awhile beneath the immense pressure of the tempest, finally righted."
17316,"Here was art undoubtedly that did not surprise me all roads, in the ordinary sense, are works of art; nor can I say that there was much to wonder at in the mere excess of art manifested; all that seemed to have been done, might have been done here with such natural ""capabilities"" as they have it in the books on Landscape Gardening with very little labor and expense."
17317,We had prepared a banquet for our guests in the lower hall of the castle; and thither Idris and I repaired to receive and entertain the few that remained.
17318,"It was not until the opening of the vault to decide the controversy, that the appearance of Mr. Windenough and myself proved both parties to have been decidedly in the wrong."
17319,I could hardly sustain the multitude of feelings that crowded into my mind.
17320,"""Entertain this belief,"" he cried, ""hug it to your heart make it a pillow to your head, an opiate for your eyes I am content."
17321,I saw our exact position in an instant.
17322,"Many living deaths have I borne for thee, O Raymond, and now I expire, thy victim By my death I purchase thee lo the instruments of war, fire, the plague are my servitors."
17323,But is it not getting late?
17324,"Such incursions struck the English with affright, in all those towns where there was still sufficient population to feel the change."
17325,"The high walls of the tomb, and the flaming sword of plague, lie between it and him."
17326,The idea of detection never once entered my brain.
17327,THE MOST notorious ill fortune must in the end yield to the untiring courage of philosophy as the most stubborn city to the ceaseless vigilance of an enemy.
17328,"What, then, must have been my amazement when I heard the Frenchman speak what he had just spoken, and when I could not help acknowledging that he had spoken the truth."
17329,"After many years spent in foreign travel, I sailed in the year , from the port of Batavia, in the rich and populous island of Java, on a voyage to the Archipelago of the Sunda islands."
17330,"Had there been divisions, the task would have been comparatively easy."
17331,"The field of ice is almost a league in width, but I spent nearly two hours in crossing it."
17332,The last nine hours have been unquestionably the most exciting of my life.
17333,"""Its susceptibility of being produced?"" said I. ""That is to say, of being destroyed,"" said Dupin."
17334,"Let us endeavor to ascertain, by repeated questionings of Madame Deluc and her boys, as well as of the omnibus driver, Valence, something more of the personal appearance and bearing of the 'man of dark complexion.' Queries, skilfully directed, will not fail to elicit, from some of these parties, information on this particular point or upon others information which the parties themselves may not even be aware of possessing."
17335,"Crazed as I was, I saw in that awful shadow a monstrous resemblance a nauseous, unbelievable caricature a blasphemous effigy of him who had been Denys Barry."
17336,"Why my sic does my heart heave with vain endeavour to cast aside the bitter anguish that covers it ""as the waters cover the sea."""
17337,"Clumps of wild flowers grew everywhere, luxuriantly, in the interspaces."
17338,He now grew more composed in his demeanor; but his original air of enthusiasm had quite disappeared.
17339,It would be a city greater than Innsmouth next time.
17340,"I was not sufficiently awake to see whether Tobey was attending to his duties as sentinel, but felt a distinct anxiety on that score."
17341,I kept quite still and said nothing.
17342,Alas it was double cruelty in him to have chosen the sea for his fatal resolve; it was adding madness to my despair.
17343,"The name of the king, he to whom my dying father had addressed his latest prayers, and who had barbarously slighted them, was associated only with the ideas of unkindness, injustice, and consequent resentment."
17344,"A draught of this Medoc will defend us from the damps."""
17345,To do do small man and bad pay....... TOTAL sic The item chiefly disputed in this bill was the very moderate charge of two pennies for the dickey.
17346,Yet let me a little retract from this sentence I have passed on myself.
17347,As I look back across the years I realise how unreal it seems; and sometimes half wonder if old Dr. Fenton was not right when he charged it all to my excited imagination.
17348,"The Old Ones were, the Old Ones are, and the Old Ones shall be."
17349,"In his explanation of this phraseology, Mr. Ellison did much toward solving what has always seemed to me an enigma: I mean the fact which none but the ignorant dispute that no such combination of scenery exists in nature as the painter of genius may produce."
17350,"The Comte died without utterance, and was buried the next day, but little more than two and thirty years from the hour of his birth."
17351,"The paste thus arising was called papyrus in its primary state, and went through a variety of processes until it finally became ""silk."""
17352,"I see by your eagerness and the wonder and hope which your eyes express, my friend, that you expect to be informed of the secret with which I am acquainted; that cannot be; listen patiently until the end of my story, and you will easily perceive why I am reserved upon that subject."
17353,"Were the pride of ancestry, the patrician spirit, the gentle courtesies and refined pursuits, splendid attributes of rank, to be erased among us?"
17354,Not even the outlines of continents and seas could now be traced upon the earth with anything approaching distinctness.
17355,"Rumour now and then associated him with a certain ""Consul Hasting"" whose work for the stage and for motion picture companies attracted a certain degree of attention because of its scholarly breadth and depth; but Hasting soon disappeared from the public eye, and Galpin became only a name for parents to quote in warning accents."
17356,Social feeling and sympathy constituted a marked feature in my disposition.
17357,"Within there were carven mantels and graceful stairs, and sensible, pleasing furniture, china, and silver, brought from the Mother Land."
17358,"Cut loose, then, in high spirits, and rose gently but steadily, with a light breeze at North, which bore us in the direction of the British Channel."
17359,Wealth was the general solution but this I knew to be no solution at all; for Wyatt had told me that she neither brought him a dollar nor had any expectations from any source whatever.
17360,"As he spoke, every sound was hushed, every thought suspended by intense attention."
17361,"The Emperors Tiberius and Maurice did kindly honour to his old age, and contributed much to his immortality especially Maurice, whose delight it was to trace his ancestry to old Rome notwithstanding his birth at Arabiscus, in Cappadocia."
17362,"At this time, my belief in the supernatural was firm and deep seated, else I should have dismissed with scorn the incredible narrative unfolded before my eyes."
17363,"""You have a quarrel on hand, I see,"" said I, ""with some of the algebraists of Paris; but proceed."""
17364,"Although this event failed not of a vivid effect upon my disordered imagination, yet was it evanescent as vivid."
17365,"I started up, my strength returned; sic with my terror; I cried, ""Oh, God Is this thy decree?"
17366,"One night, about the close of my fifth year at the school, and immediately after the altercation just mentioned, finding every one wrapped in sleep, I arose from bed, and, lamp in hand, stole through a wilderness of narrow passages from my own bedroom to that of my rival."
17367,"Burke has said that, 'in all bodies those who would lead, must also, in a considerable degree, follow.'"
17368,I never loved any but you.
17369,"When, I say, all this became evident to my appalled senses, when I could no longer hide it from my soul, nor throw it off from those perceptions which trembled to receive it, is it to be wondered at that suspicions, of a nature fearful and exciting, crept in upon my spirit, or that my thoughts fell back aghast upon the wild tales and thrilling theories of the entombed Morella?"
17370,"They retreated, at first, before us."
17371,Nothing else of an extraordinary nature occurred during the day.
17372,The very moderate density of these bodies had been well established.
17373,"The chairs and table were ""to match,"" but the forms of all had evidently been designed by the same brain which planned ""the grounds;"" it is impossible to conceive anything more graceful."
17374,"Pardon me, gentle reader, this is not futile vanity; not futile, since to know that Adrian felt thus, brings joy even now to my lone heart."
17375,"I found that we were to have a great many passengers, including a more than usual number of ladies."
17376,"She directed everything to be prepared for the continuance of their journey, and placing her lovely sleeping charge on a bed, passed several hours in acute suffering."
17377,After this I call to mind flatness and dampness; and then all is madness the madness of a memory which busies itself among forbidden things.
17378,"I feel yet parched with horror, nor can I reflect on that terrible moment without shuddering and agony."
17379,"That morning and afternoon I wandered alone through the sun gilded village and talked now and then with idle labourers, for Barry was busy with the final plans for beginning his work of drainage."
17380,"On the hearth were two or three long and thick tresses of grey human hair, also dabbled in blood, and seeming to have been pulled out by the roots."
17381,"This good woman had stood in the place of a mother, and her very deficiencies of education and knowledge, by rendering her humble and defenceless, endeared her to us she was the especial favourite of the children."
17382,"As the shadows gathered, the natives commenced to disperse homeward, anxious to bar themselves indoors despite the present evidence that all human locks and bolts were useless before a force that could bend trees and crush houses when it chose."
17383,"""Astonishingly,"" said the second; ""still quite a brilliant air, but art will do wonders."
17384,"Once I partly awaked, probably because the sleeper toward the window had restlessly flung an arm across my chest."
17385,"What shall we think of an engine of wood and metal which can not only compute astronomical and navigation tables to any given extent, but render the exactitude of its operations mathematically certain through its power of correcting its possible errors?"
17386,"Mixed with the present scene was always a little of the past and a little of the future, and every once familiar object loomed alien in the new perspective brought by my widened sight."
17387,"His right hand fell on one of the projecting figures, the touch seeming to steady him slightly."
17388,"His height could not have been less than six feet, and despite a general air of age and poverty he was stout and powerful in proportion."
17389,"""Treason"" said the little man with the gout."
17390,"We conjectured, notwithstanding what we had heard, that we should find Raymond in St. Stephen's: thither we sped."
17391,"But what mainly occasioned a righteous indignation was, that the scoundrelly popinjay, while he cut a fandango here, and a whirligig there, did not seem to have the remotest idea in the world of such a thing as keeping time in his steps."
17392,"At the time I saw no reason to dissent from this dictum, but latterly I am inclined to wonder and more than wonder."
17393,"He felt assured, after he had for awhile humoured her self will, that in the end friendship and reason would gain the day."
17394,"That my memory is broken, I do not wonder; for my health, physical and mental, was gravely disturbed throughout the period of my residence in the Rue d'Auseil, and I recall that I took none of my few acquaintances there."
17395,"""But that ain't the trouble naow that was only the start."
17396,"In fact, he would have given ten thousand pounds from his own pocket Kate's plum was her own if he could have invented any thing like an excuse for complying with our very natural wishes."
17397,"What the ""Daddy"" chose to say of the Fly, however, was no business of mine."
17398,"""It may appear invidious in me, Miss Psyche Zenobia, to refer you to any article, or set of articles, in the way of model or study, yet perhaps I may as well call your attention to a few cases."
17399,"I know not by what chain of thought the idea presented itself, but it instantly darted into my mind that the murderer had come to mock at my misery and taunt me with the death of Clerval, as a new incitement for me to comply with his hellish desires."
17400,"There will be frequent hours in which I shall need, too, the sympathy of the poetic in what I have done."
17401,"""Who dares?"" he demanded hoarsely of the courtiers who stood near him ""who dares insult us with this blasphemous mockery?"
17402,Meanwhile he would try to keep track of his somnambulism.
17403,The apartments were so irregularly disposed that the vision embraced but little more than one at a time.
17404,"""Smith?"" said Mrs. P., as we twirled about together in a pas de zephyr, ""Smith?"
17405,I tell you we are no longer miserable mortals; we are about to become Gods; spirits free and happy as gods.
17406,"It is long since I first trod the deck of this terrible ship, and the rays of my destiny are, I think, gathering to a focus."
17407,"Quizzed the whole party through an opera glass, till I saw the fat lady blush and whisper to G. Went round, then, into the box, and put my nose within reach of his hand."
17408,"The region now entered by the police was one of traditionally evil repute, substantially unknown and untraversed by white men."
17409,"I was convinced of this for two reasons because my birds always flew in a straight line; and because whenever we attempted to rest, we were carried insensibly around the globe of the earth."
17410,"She says the hired boy Luther was aout drivin' in the caows from the storm arter the big bolt, when he see all the trees a bendin' at the maouth o' the glen opposite side ter this an' smelt the same awful smell like he smelt when he faound the big tracks las' Monday mornin'."
17411,"That night as Gilman slept the violet light broke upon him with heightened intensity, and the old witch and small furry thing getting closer than ever before mocked him with inhuman squeals and devilish gestures."
17412,"""You could take that old bus, I suppose,"" he said with a certain hesitation, ""but it ain't thought much of hereabouts."
17413,But this is what I shiveringly puzzled out on the stickily smeared paper before I drew a match and burned it to a crisp; what I puzzled out in terror as the landlady and two mechanics rushed frantically from that hellish place to babble their incoherent stories at the nearest police station.
17414,"Suddenly, as the seamen stumbled against the entrance of a tall and ghastly looking building, a yell more than usually shrill from the throat of the excited Legs, was replied to from within, in a rapid succession of wild, laughter like, and fiendish shrieks."
17415,The world was to me a secret which I desired to divine.
17416,"The plain around was interspersed with cemeteries, Turk, Greek, and Armenian, with their growth of cypress trees; and other woods of more cheerful aspect, diversified the scene."
17417,There was the President of the Fum Fudge University.
17418,"""All men hate the wretched; how, then, must I be hated, who am miserable beyond all living things Yet you, my creator, detest and spurn me, thy creature, to whom thou art bound by ties only dissoluble by the annihilation of one of us."
17419,"It is quite a common thing to be thus annoyed with the ringing in our ears, or rather in our memories, of the burthen of some ordinary song, or some unimpressive snatches from an opera."
17420,"that's me"" here I screamed at the top of my voice ""that's me e e I am Napoleon Bonaparte Froissart and if I havn't married my great, great, grandmother, I wish I may be everlastingly confounded"" Madame Eugenie Lalande, quasi Simpson formerly Moissart was, in sober fact, my great, great, grandmother."
17421,She had grown thin and pale; and her eyes often filled with tears.
17422,"The propelling principle, or power, was here, also, applied to interrupted surfaces, or vanes, put in revolution."
17423,"If, instead of this remark, my father had taken the pains to explain to me that the principles of Agrippa had been entirely exploded and that a modern system of science had been introduced which possessed much greater powers than the ancient, because the powers of the latter were chimerical, while those of the former were real and practical, under such circumstances I should certainly have thrown Agrippa aside and have contented my imagination, warmed as it was, by returning with greater ardour to my former studies."
17424,"Turning to him, therefore, I said, ""I consent to your demand, on your solemn oath to quit Europe forever, and every other place in the neighbourhood of man, as soon as I shall deliver into your hands a female who will accompany you in your exile."""
17425,My appearance is commanding.
17426,"With this object in view I had prepared a very strong perfectly air tight, but flexible gum elastic bag."
17427,"Upon sight of it, the Ourang Outang sprang at once through the door of the chamber, down the stairs, and thence, through a window, unfortunately open, into the street."
17428,"Her only consolation during the violence which she did herself, was to watch the motions of an illuminated clock, and internally count the moments which must elapse before she could be alone."
17429,"Thus isolated, and thrown upon my own resources, I spent the hours of my childhood in poring over the ancient tomes that filled the shadow haunted library of the chateau, and in roaming without aim or purpose through the perpetual dusk of the spectral wood that clothes the side of the hill near its foot."
17430,"Houses went up of them, and more and at last one fateful night a titan thing occurred."
17431,And I called the Mighty Ruler of the Universe to witness the pious solemnity of my vow.
17432,"In this disposition, the dupe who cuts, as customary, at the length of the pack, will invariably find that he cuts his antagonist an honor; while the gambler, cutting at the breadth, will, as certainly, cut nothing for his victim which may count in the records of the game."
17433,"Upon coming to my senses, for the fall had very thoroughly stunned me, I found it about four o'clock in the morning."
17434,"At length I saw a grass grown opening toward the sea between crumbling brick walls, with the weedy length of an earth and masonry wharf projecting beyond."
17435,An instantaneous and dreadful sickness seized me.
17436,"With a well feigned show of reluctance, and not until after my repeated refusal had seduced him into some angry words which gave a color of pique to my compliance, did I finally comply."
17437,"The sight of the military restored hope to those who fled, and revenge took place of fear."
17438,"Then I should have lived upon this dreary heath unvisited, and blasting none by my unhallowed gaze."
17439,"The other crucible had some liquid in it, which, as the officers entered, seemed to be furiously dissipating in vapor."
17440,"We had now been about ten minutes upon the top of Helseggen, to which we had ascended from the interior of Lofoden, so that we had caught no glimpse of the sea until it had burst upon us from the summit."
17441,"I became perfectly certain of this; for I recollected turning up first one side and then the other, in search of the cleanest spot."
17442,"""In his murder my crimes are consummated; the miserable series of my being is wound to its close Oh, Frankenstein Generous and self devoted being What does it avail that I now ask thee to pardon me?"
17443,"He mentioned the beauties of his native country and asked us if those were not sufficient allurements to induce us to prolong our journey as far north as Perth, where he resided."
17444,Do you see the stage box?
17445,"At least it would be a benevolent action to rescue the sufferer, whether human or brute, from the desolation of the town; so, sending Clara back to her home, I again entered Constantinople."
17446,Not even here is knowledge thing of intuition.
17447,"Perdita rejoined him, and before her he forced himself to appear cheerful, for she, even as a mirror, changed as he changed, and if he were silent and anxious, she solicitously inquired concerning, and endeavoured to remove the cause of his seriousness."
17448,"And their astonishment may be well conceived, when the next day it became known, all over Bremen, that the 'lot of brass' which they had carted so contemptuously to the police office, without putting themselves to the trouble of pocketing the smallest scrap, was not only gold real gold but gold far finer than any employed in coinage gold, in fact, absolutely pure, virgin, without the slightest appreciable alloy."
17449,Near the fire was Ryland and his supporters.
17450,"Day after day so many hundreds wore on; they brought no outward changes with them, but some few slowly operated on my mind as I glided on towards death."
17451,"Now, if we imagine this sense of the Almighty Design to be harmonized in a measurable degree, if we suppose a landscape whose combined strangeness, vastness, definitiveness, and magnificence, shall inspire the idea of culture, or care, or superintendence, on the part of intelligences superior yet akin to humanity then the sentiment of interest is preserved, while the Art is made to assume the air of an intermediate or secondary Nature a Nature which is not God, nor an emanation of God, but which still is Nature, in the sense that it is the handiwork of the angels that hover between man and God."""
17452,"She regarded with suspicion the invitation of Idris; she embraced me, as if she were about to be deprived of my affection also: calling me her more than brother, her only friend, her last hope, she pathetically conjured me not to cease to love her; and with encreased anxiety she departed for London, the scene and cause of all her misery."
17453,"The doctor was a bachelor; a white haired, clean shaven, old fashioned gentleman, and a local historian of note, who had often broken a lance with such controversial guardians of tradition as Sidney S. Rider and Thomas W. Bicknell."
17454,"You who have dedicated your powers of mind and fortune to the benefit of your species, shall you so misdirect your exertions, as to support in uselessness the strong, healthy, and capable?"""
17455,"The ship was no longer visible, having drifted away, apparently to the eastward."
17456,"It was in March when the fresh element entered his lighter preliminary dreaming, and the nightmare shape of Brown Jenkin began to be companioned by the nebulous blur which grew more and more to resemble a bent old woman."
17457,"Certainly, it had much to do with something in the book which Warren carried with him that ancient book in undecipherable characters which had come to him from India a month before but I swear I do not know what it was that we expected to find."
17458,"At last, with slow and heavy steps, I had paced out of the hall, and sprung upon my horse."
17459,These simple people were quick to imagine they had seen any odd thing they had heard about.
17460,"I clung to my ferocious habits, yet half despised them; I continued my war against civilization, and yet entertained a wish to belong to it."
17461,"Joe Slater, who came to the institution in the vigilant custody of four state policemen, and who was described as a highly dangerous character, certainly presented no evidence of his perilous disposition when first I beheld him."
17462,But my father; my beloved and most wretched father?
17463,"I had always been exceptionally tolerant of West's pursuits, and we frequently discussed his theories, whose ramifications and corollaries were almost infinite."
17464,No human being could have passed a happier childhood than myself.
17465,"That those venturesome youths will come back they do not doubt, but they think a light may be gone from their eyes, and a will from their hearts."
17466,"""Perhaps the mystery is a little too plain,"" said Dupin."
17467,"""She will of course, as I shall her, when we are married."""
17468,"He questioned the sculptor with scientific minuteness; and studied with almost frantic intensity the bas relief on which the youth had found himself working, chilled and clad only in his night clothes, when waking had stolen bewilderingly over him."
17469,"I never learned its title, for the early pages were missing; but it fell open toward the end and gave me a glimpse of something which sent my senses reeling."
17470,"When at last my senses returned, all was frightfully dark, and my mind remembering what had occurred, shrank from the idea of beholding more; yet curiosity overmastered all."
17471,"Indeed, the labor now required by the condenser had increased to a most oppressive degree, and allowed me scarcely any respite from exertion."
17472,"They had to do with some preposterous legend of the bog, and of a grim guardian spirit that dwelt in the strange olden ruin on the far islet I had seen in the sunset."
17473,"You, perhaps, regard her as your sister, without any wish that she might become your wife."
17474,"I had to rest several times before I could accomplish this manoeuvre, but it was at length accomplished."
17475,"No word was uttered, for the spot and the task seemed known to us; and without delay we seized our spades and commenced to clear away the grass, weeds, and drifted earth from the flat, archaic mortuary."
17476,"Then taking also from the drawer the Automaton's set of chess men, he arranges them upon the chessboard before the figure."
17477,We may not part until you have promised to comply with my requisition.
17478,"As twilight deepened I turned on the one feeble electric bulb over the cheap, iron framed bed, and tried as best I could to continue the reading I had begun."
17479,"For some distance the line kept on along the gorge's brink, but at length I reached the long covered bridge where it crossed the chasm at a dizzy height."
17480,"Turning her thoughts this way, I gave them an object which rescued them from insanity."
17481,"Opening the door, he saw that the flour on the corridor floor was undisturbed except for the huge prints of the loutish fellow who roomed at the other end of the garret."
17482,"She had never been married; and for the last five years had lived perfectly alone on an estate, that had descended to her through her mother, on the shores of Loch Lomond in Scotland."
17483,"When I came to the reality, and saw regiments file off to the left far out of sight, fields intervening between the battalions, but a few troops sufficiently near me to observe their motions, I gave up all idea of understanding, even of seeing a battle, but attaching myself to Raymond attended with intense interest to his actions."
17484,Wait till I ring for coffee.
17485,What I then saw confounded and amazed me.
17486,A great point was to set each lunatic to guard the actions of all the others.
17487,"Those most remote from the spectators are the longest those in the middle are about two inches shorter and those nearest the company about two inches shorter still and the candles on one side differ in height from the candles respectively opposite on the other, by a ratio different from two inches that is to say, the longest candle on one side is about three inches shorter than the longest candle on the other, and so on."
17488,"They were definite and unmistakable, and awaked in my mind a blind horror beyond all rational proportion."
17489,"There she would behold the tomb of her parents, and the territory filled with recollections of her father's glory."
17490,But it was not that distant whine which robbed me of my faculties and set upon my soul such a seal of fright as may never in life be removed; not that which drew the shrieks and excited the convulsions which caused lodgers and police to break down the door.
17491,"I knew him as a courtier, too, and as a bold intriguant."
17492,The ward was filled with an effluvia that caused my heart to heave with painful qualms.
17493,"I never ben thar, but I kin tell a taown man when I see 'im we hed one fer deestrick schoolmaster in 'eighty four, but he quit suddent an' no one never heerd on 'im sence "" Here the old man lapsed into a kind of chuckle, and made no explanation when I questioned him."
17494,"This, however, implied that all roads leading out of Innsmouth were similarly patrolled; for the denizens could not have known what route I intended to take."
17495,"""You kept your eyes upon the ground glancing, with a petulant expression, at the holes and ruts in the pavement, so that I saw you were still thinking of the stones, until we reached the little alley called Lamartine, which has been paved, by way of experiment, with the overlapping and riveted blocks."
17496,What it shewed was simply the monstrous being he was painting on that awful canvas.
17497,"Atal was only the son of an innkeeper, and was sometimes afraid; but Barzai's father had been a landgrave who dwelt in an ancient castle, so he had no common superstition in his blood, and only laughed at the fearful cotters."
17498,"Once for a moment she revived and recognized his voice; a smile, a last lovely smile, played upon her lips."
17499,"An observation of yours about its great weight suggested the latter idea."""
17500,I found it impossible to comprehend him either in his moral or his physical relations.
17501,The impression she produced upon the company seemed electrical but the effect upon myself was something even more.
17502,"They could not perceive, so they said, what good was likely to result from their getting wet to the skin, merely to take a part in such horrible incantations."
17503,"With shuddering horror I veiled this monument of human passion and human misery; I heaped over her all of flags and heavy accoutrements I could find, to guard her from birds and beasts of prey, until I could bestow on her a fitting grave."
17504,At this moment we heard a step upon the stairs.
17505,"We were then to call at the house of a clergyman who would be in waiting; there be married, drop Talbot, and proceed on a short tour to the East, leaving the fashionable world at home to make whatever comments upon the matter it thought best."
17506,I felt a holy rapture spring from all I saw.
17507,It afforded me more real delight than all the mere worldly advantages accruing from my sin.
17508,I pondered upon their conformation.
17509,"They have made a Latin hymn upon the valor of the king, and are singing it as they go: Mille, mille, mille, Mille, mille, mille, Decollavimus, unus homo Mille, mille, mille, mille, decollavimus Mille, mille, mille, Vivat qui mille mille occidit Tantum vini habet nemo Quantum sanguinis effudit Which may be thus paraphrased: A thousand, a thousand, a thousand, A thousand, a thousand, a thousand, We, with one warrior, have slain A thousand, a thousand, a thousand, a thousand."
17510,To the left the character of the scene is softer and more obviously artificial.
17511,"With her therefore, before me on my horse, attended only by the servant who was to re conduct her, we rode to the Top Kapou."
17512,"We will set up a candidate, and ensure his success."
17513,Whither does this lead?
17514,"Despite the obvious danger of attracting notice and bringing down on our heads the dreaded police investigation a thing which after all was mercifully averted by the relative isolation of our cottage my friend suddenly, excitedly, and unnecessarily emptied all six chambers of his revolver into the nocturnal visitor."
17515,The young man and his companion often went apart and appeared to weep.
17516,No such paradises are to be found in reality as have glowed on the canvas of Claude.
17517,"Xh, Jxhn, Jxhn, Jxhn, if yxu dxn't gx yxu're nx hxmx nx Yxu're xnly a fxwl, an xwl; a cxw, a sxw; a dxll, a pxll; a pxxr xld gxxd fxr nxthing tx nxbxdy, lxg, dxg, hxg, xr frxg, cxme xut xf a Cxncxrd bxg."
17518,"I now felt a burning sense of the impropriety I had committed, and expected nothing less than instant exposure; while a vision of pistols upon the morrow floated rapidly and uncomfortably through my brain."
17519,"For the rest, he laughed with his arms and legs, and his politics were stubborn and easily understood."
17520,He felt that the end of time was come; he knew that one by one we should dwindle into nothingness.
17521,The old lady was childish.
17522,"It was merely that my uncle's facial expression, disturbed no doubt by the strange dreams which our situation prompted, betrayed considerable agitation, and seemed not at all characteristic of him."
17523,"See you not the thunderbolt fall, and are deafened by the shout of heaven that follows its descent?"
17524,My knees tottered beneath me my teeth chattered my hair started up on end.
17525,"I rushed towards her and embraced her with ardour, but the deadly languor and coldness of the limbs told me that what I now held in my arms had ceased to be the Elizabeth whom I had loved and cherished."
17526,"In looking about, I discovered the interesting girl to whom Monsieur Maillard had presented me in the little parlor; but my surprise was great to see her wearing a hoop and farthingale, with high heeled shoes, and a dirty cap of Brussels lace, so much too large for her that it gave her face a ridiculously diminutive expression."
17527,It is a part of man's nature to adapt itself through habit even to pain and sorrow.
17528,"And then there stole into my fancy, like a rich musical note, the thought of what sweet rest there must be in the grave."
17529,"Je lui ai cette obligation entre les autres, de m' auoir non seulement mis en main cc Livre en anglois, mais encore le Manuscrit du Sieur Thomas D'Anan, gentilhomme Eccossois, recommandable pour sa vertu, sur la version duquel j' advoue que j' ay tiré le plan de la mienne."""
17530,"It was in the township of Dunwich, in a large and partly inhabited farmhouse set against a hillside four miles from the village and a mile and a half from any other dwelling, that Wilbur Whateley was born at A.M. on Sunday, the second of February, ."
17531,"It was a painful process, and at its very start brought out a fresh and disconcerting fact."
17532,"Hereupon Mr. Crab desired me to use up the editor of the ""Gad Fly"" forthwith, in the fiercest style within the scope of my ability, and as a specimen of my powers."
17533,ANTIOCHUS EPIPHANES is very generally looked upon as the Gog of the prophet Ezekiel.
17534,He was singularly tall and thin.
17535,And yet how unintelligible is this In all other matters we are justly instructed to regard nature as supreme.
17536,"The light, almost slender symmetry of his figure, promised more of that ready activity which he evinced at the Bridge of Sighs, than of that Herculean strength which he has been known to wield without an effort, upon occasions of more dangerous emergency."
17537,"In the brooding fire of autumn Carter took the old remembered way past graceful lines of rolling hill and stone walled meadow, distant vale and hanging woodland, curving road and nestling farmstead, and the crystal windings of the Miskatonic, crossed here and there by rustic bridges of wood or stone."
17538,"I was returning home from the Piazetta, by way of the Grand Canal."
17539,"By the time help could be summoned, every trace of the men and of their mad charge had vanished."
17540,"""How inconstant are your feelings But a moment ago you were moved by my representations, and why do you again harden yourself to my complaints?"
17541,"Its length was thirteen feet six inches height, six feet eight inches."
17542,"He hesitated but for an instant; then, with a slight sigh, drew in silence, and put himself upon his defence."
17543,"Had the wind suddenly changed eastward, so that it blew in from the sea and over the town?"
17544,"I watched the re awakened devotion of my sister; Clara's timid, but concentrated admiration of her father, and Raymond's appetite for renown, and sensitiveness to the demonstrations of affection of the Athenians."
17545,"She must have thought of these things, I say."
17546,"This man, Joseph D. Galvez, I later met and questioned; and he proved distractingly imaginative."
17547,"The moodiness of my usual temper increased to hatred of all things and of all mankind; while, from the sudden, frequent, and ungovernable outbursts of a fury to which I now blindly abandoned myself, my uncomplaining wife, alas was the most usual and the most patient of sufferers."
17548,"Nor did they like the strange sculptures upon the grey monoliths of Ib, for those sculptures were terrible with great antiquity."
17549,"It was late in the day before Perdita awoke, and a longer time elapsed before recovering from the torpor occasioned by the laudanum, she perceived her change of situation."
17550,"I looked dizzily, and beheld a wide expanse of ocean, whose waters wore so inky a hue as to bring at once to my mind the Nubian geographer's account of the Mare Tenebrarum."
17551,"The flame of a candle burned upon the poop without the least perceptible motion, and a long hair, held between the finger and thumb, hung without the possibility of detecting a vibration."
17552,"""Put your right hand into your left hand preeches pocket, ten, in token ov your vull zubmizzion unto te Angel ov te Odd."""
17553,One wolf was seen to lope away unhurt.
17554,Archaeologists and anthropologists are still trying to explain the bizarre designs chased on a crushed bowl of light metal whose inner side bore ominous brownish stains when found.
17555,"I am that is to say I was a great man; but I am neither the author of Junius nor the man in the mask; for my name, I believe, is Robert Jones, and I was born somewhere in the city of Fum Fudge."
17556,Never for one moment when most placid did I cease to pray for death.
17557,"My own name, though, as I say, became Simpson, by act of Legislature, and with so much repugnance on my part, that, at one period, I actually hesitated about accepting the legacy with the useless and annoying proviso attached."
17558,"The girl was young and of gentle demeanour, unlike what I have since found cottagers and farmhouse servants to be."
17559,These repeated insults were not to be endured by an imperious nobility.
17560,"Much as they were attached to each other, they seemed to draw inexhaustible stores of affection from a very mine of love to bestow them upon me."
17561,"He received a letter from her to say that she was slightly ill, but telling him to hasten to her, that from his eyes she would receive health and that his company would be her surest medecine."
17562,"""You are mistaken, my lord; the horse, as I think we mentioned, is not from the stables of the Count."
17563,"With the main result of these colloquies the public is now familiar and I wish, for normality's sake, there were nothing more to tell."
17564,"I shunned the face of man; all sound of joy or complacency was torture to me; solitude was my only consolation deep, dark, deathlike solitude."
17565,"Not for a moment did I believe that the tale had any really substantial foundation; but none the less the account held a hint of genuine terror, if only because it brought in references to strange jewels clearly akin to the malign tiara I had seen at Newburyport."
17566,"I struggled vainly for firmness sufficient to answer him, but the effort destroyed all my remaining strength; I sank on the chair and sobbed aloud."
17567,From its nether extremity swung a large cresset.
17568,When she entered the court she threw her eyes round it and quickly discovered where we were seated.
17569,The monster continued to utter wild and incoherent self reproaches.
17570,They upthrew the damp earth.
17571,"""Ha ha ha why, Simpson, you have an astonishing tact at making discoveries original ones, I mean."""
17572,Its forest should be our world its garden afford us food; within its walls I would establish the shaken throne of health.
17573,"For all his love of Ireland, America had not left him untouched, and he hated the beautiful wasted space where peat might be cut and land opened up."
17574,"'Pardon this intrusion,' said I; 'I am a traveller in want of a little rest; you would greatly oblige me if you would allow me to remain a few minutes before the fire.' ""'Enter,' said De Lacey, 'and I will try in what manner I can to relieve your wants; but, unfortunately, my children are from home, and as I am blind, I am afraid I shall find it difficult to procure food for you.' ""'Do not trouble yourself, my kind host; I have food; it is warmth and rest only that I need.' ""I sat down, and a silence ensued."
17575,And toward the shore on the opposite bank of the river I saw the white belfry surmounting what I took to be the Marsh refinery.
17576,"And when Barzai began to climb higher and beckon eagerly, it was long before Atal would follow."
17577,"He transacted the business of the day apart from her; he went out, she knew not whither."
17578,"So instead of the poems I had hoped for, there came only a shuddering blankness and ineffable loneliness; and I saw at last a fearful truth which no one had ever dared to breathe before the unwhisperable secret of secrets the fact that this city of stone and stridor is not a sentient perpetuation of Old New York as London is of Old London and Paris of Old Paris, but that it is in fact quite dead, its sprawling body imperfectly embalmed and infested with queer animate things which have nothing to do with it as it was in life."
17579,"When I had finished, I felt satisfied that all was right."
17580,It is also written that they descended one night from the moon in a mist; they and the vast still lake and grey stone city Ib.
17581,The ship and all in it are imbued with the spirit of Eld.
17582,"We had no means of calculating time, nor could we form any guess of our situation."
17583,"""I want whiskey good old fashioned rye"" exclaimed Trever enthusiastically."
17584,"A rough gash was made, and a wire hastily brought in contact, when the patient, with a hurried but quite unconvulsive movement, arose from the table, stepped into the middle of the floor, gazed about him uneasily for a few seconds, and then spoke."
17585,"During the first stage of the election, the Duke of had been thrown out; the question therefore lay between Lord Raymond and Mr. Ryland."
17586,"I am Romnod, and born of the blood of Teloth, but am not old in the ways of the granite city, and yearn daily for the warm groves and the distant lands of beauty and song."
17587,"That Raymond should marry Idris was more than ever intolerable; yet my passion, though a giant from its birth, was too strange, wild, and impracticable, for me to feel at once the misery I perceived in Perdita."
17588,"The older authorities seemed rather more helpful than the newer ones, and Armitage concluded that the code of the manuscript was one of great antiquity, no doubt handed down through a long line of mystical experimenters."
17589,Unmistakably he was looking at the curtained window and listening shudderingly.
17590,Again her chill limbs touched me as a torpedo; and I shuddered in sympathy with her pain and fright.
17591,It is with a confused recollection that I bring to mind the circumstances of that meeting.
17592,"Very simple were the things of which they read and spoke, yet things which gave them courage and goodness and helped them by day to subdue the forest and till the fields."
17593,"Could distinguish some words of the former, which was that of a Frenchman."
17594,"You have often agreed with me that there is but one solution to the intricate riddle of life; to improve ourselves, and contribute to the happiness of others: and now, in the very prime of life, you desert your principles, and shut yourself up in useless solitude."
17595,"He speeded up his car as he passed it, and did not slacken till he had mounted the hill where his mother and her fathers before her were born, and where the old white house still looked proudly across the road at the breathlessly lovely panorama of rocky slope and verdant valley, with the distant spires of Kingsport on the horizon, and hints of the archaic, dream laden sea in the farthest background."
17596,"Welcome did not survive his father, but lived to perish gloriously at Fredericksburg in ."
17597,"Raymond had fought and conquered for the Athenians; he had suffered, on their account, peril, imprisonment, and hardship; their gratitude affected him deeply, and he inly vowed to unite his fate for ever to that of a people so enthusiastically devoted to him."
17598,But it is not to this fact that I now especially advert.
17599,"But Hiram, loyal to the last, has held faith in me, and has done that which impels me to make public at least a part of my story."
17600,"Those who took down their receivers heard a fright mad voice shriek out, ""Help, oh, my Gawd . ."
17601,"On the following day I was brought to this room with the barred windows, but I have been kept informed of certain things through an aged and simple minded servitor, for whom I bore a fondness in infancy, and who like me loves the churchyard."
17602,Even now if we had courage we might be free.
17603,"Its voice was a kind of loathsome titter, and it could speak all languages."
17604,"Seems they get a queer crowd there, for this fellow heard voices in other rooms though most of 'em was empty that gave him the shivers."
17605,I will tell the audient void. . . .
17606,"This spirit existed as a breath, a wish, a far off thought, until communicated to Adrian, who imbibed it with ardour, and instantly engaged himself in plans for its execution."
17607,"'The river Alpheus passed beneath the sea, and emerged without injury to the purity of its waters.'"
17608,"Not but what I think it's the Lord's jedgment fer our iniquities, that no mortal kin ever set aside."" Armitage saw that the time for positive action had come, and spoke decisively to the faltering group of frightened rustics."
17609,"She would never tell what her father and the boy were doing up there, though once she turned pale and displayed an abnormal degree of fear when a jocose fish peddler tried the locked door leading to the stairway."
17610,Hence that positive appetite for system and regularity which has made me the distinguished man of business that I am.
17611,"Manton seemed unimpressed by my arguments, and eager to refute them, having that confidence in his own opinions which had doubtless caused his success as a teacher; whilst I was too sure of my ground to fear defeat."
17612,While they were talking Desrochers dropped in to say that he had heard a terrific clattering overhead in the dark small hours.
17613,"A lamp which had been accidentally left, full of oil, within the tomb, was found empty; it might have been exhausted, however, by evaporation."
17614,"I gave to each heroine of whom I read, her beauty and matchless excellences such was Antigone, when she guided the blind Oedipus to the grove of the Eumenides, and discharged the funeral rites of Polynices; such was Miranda in the unvisited cave of Prospero; such Haidee, on the sands of the Ionian island."
17615,"He got in communication with Dr. Houghton of Aylesbury, who had attended Old Whateley in his last illness, and found much to ponder over in the grandfather's last words as quoted by the physician."
17616,"The trees of the frequent forest belts seem too large, and the wild weeds, brambles, and grasses attain a luxuriance not often found in settled regions."
17617,"I then moved forward, and a murmuring sound arose from the crowd as they followed and surrounded me, when an ill looking man approaching tapped me on the shoulder and said, ""Come, sir, you must follow me to Mr. Kirwin's to give an account of yourself."""
17618,"This I would have asked him had he not been so far away, but he was very far, and could not be seen at all when he drew nigh that gigantic reef."
17619,"The few jewels they had saved, supported them awhile."
17620,Then on his word and will depended my own happiness the fate of all dear to me.
17621,"I watched it attentively until sunset, when it spread all at once to the eastward and westward, girting in the horizon with a narrow strip of vapor, and looking like a long line of low beach."
17622,"Ah, word of no meaning behind whose vast latitude of mere sound we intrench our ignorance of so much of the spiritual."
17623,"Again her name was syllabled, and she shuddered as she asked herself, am I becoming mad, or am I dying, that I hear the voices of the departed?"
17624,"The sight of her, in her present situation, passed like an arrow into his soul."
17625,"Guided by a lightning flash I settled myself down behind a dense clump of vegetation, through which I could see the opening without being seen."
17626,This expectation will now be the consolation of your father.
17627,Do you wonder how it will seem?
17628,"In my nervousness I looked around and discovered a bolt on the clothes press which seemed to be of the same size, judging from the marks, as the one formerly on the door."
17629,"His little old servant Parks, who for years bore patiently with his vagaries, last saw him on the morning he drove off alone in his car with a key he had recently found."
17630,"I copy for your amusement the Knickerbocker inscription on the marble slab: This Corner Stone of a Monument to The Memory of GEORGE WASHINGTON Was Laid With Appropriate Ceremonies on the th Day of October, The anniversary of the surrender of Lord Cornwallis to General Washington at Yorktown A. D. Under the Auspices of the Washington Monument Association of the city of New York This, as I give it, is a verbatim translation done by Pundit himself, so there can be no mistake about it."
17631,"""Very true; but what are they doing here?"""
17632,"""The first thing requisite is to get yourself into such a scrape as no one ever got into before."
17633,"""The island in the distance,"" resumed the old man, ""is called by the Norwegians Vurrgh."
17634,"""Do you not know, my friends,"" I said, ""that the Earl himself, now Lord Protector, visits daily, not only those probably infected by this disease, but the hospitals and pest houses, going near, and even touching the sick?"
17635,"He had read of it with interest, for the paper had told about some strange burrows or passages found in the rocky hill beneath."
17636,"No one knew, no one could imagine; no one not even the burgomaster Mynheer Superbus Von Underduk had the slightest clew by which to unravel the mystery; so, as nothing more reasonable could be done, every one to a man replaced his pipe carefully in the corner of his mouth, and cocking up his right eye towards the phenomenon, puffed, paused, waddled about, and grunted significantly then waddled back, grunted, paused, and finally puffed again."
17637,"The leading article, I must admit, was brilliant not to say severe."
17638,"I had been assured that the old man could do nothing but hint at wild, disjointed, and incredible legends, and I had been warned that the natives made it unsafe to be seen talking to him; yet the thought of this aged witness to the town's decay, with memories going back to the early days of ships and factories, was a lure that no amount of reason could make me resist."
17639,"She seemed to be full of something to which she could not give words; but, seizing an opportunity afforded by Perdita's absence, she preferred to me an earnest prayer, that I would take her within view of the gate at which her father had entered Constantinople."
17640,"He had not been at Oxford for nothing, nor talked to no account with an ancient chymist and astrologer in Paris."
17641,"Can I see George?"" ""See him,"" cried the woman, ""yes, if you go to him; last night he was taken with the plague, and we sent him to the hospital."""
17642,"Here, however, are Moissart, Voissart, Croissart, and Froissart, all in the direct line of descent."
17643,Ten o'clock found me in some fashionable promenade or other place of public amusement.
17644,"""But, in point of fact, an ascension being made to any given altitude, the ponderable quantity of air surmounted in any farther ascension is by no means in proportion to the additional height ascended as may be plainly seen from what has been stated before, but in a ratio constantly decreasing."
17645,"Down from the heights reels the glittering Cassiopeia as the hours wear on, while Charles' Wain lumbers up from behind the vapour soaked swamp trees that sway in the night wind."
17646,"The door resisted even more than I had expected, but I did not give in."
17647,"In solitude, and through many wanderings afar from the haunts of men, he matured his views for the reform of the English government, and the improvement of the people."
17648,"For, in truth, it was at this crisis that taste alone that faculty which, holding a middle position between the pure intellect and the moral sense, could never safely have been disregarded it was now that taste alone could have led us gently back to Beauty, to Nature, and to Life."
17649,"If we went to Italy, to sacred and eternal Rome, we might with greater patience submit to the decree, which had laid her mighty towers low."
17650,"The reality of what I had been through was highly uncertain in my mind, but I felt that something hideous lay in the background."
17651,"I met troops of horses, herds of cattle, flocks of sheep, wandering at will; here throwing down a hay rick, and nestling from cold in its heart, which afforded them shelter and food there having taken possession of a vacant cottage."
17652,But that cannot be; the human senses are insurmountable barriers to our union.
17653,"The mountains of Switzerland are more majestic and strange, but there is a charm in the banks of this divine river that I never before saw equalled."
17654,"And thus, joy suddenly faded into horror, and the most beautiful became the most hideous, as Hinnon became Ge Henna."
17655,"In the meantime, as it was very certain that I would be attacked in the Fly for my attempt at composing a rival poem on the ""Oil of Bob,"" he Mr. Crab, would take it upon himself to attend, pointedly, to my private and personal interests."
17656,"From that period the ship, being thrown dead off the wind, has continued her terrific course due south, with every rag of canvas packed upon her, from her trucks to her lower studding sail booms, and rolling every moment her top gallant yard arms into the most appalling hell of water which it can enter into the mind of a man to imagine."
17657,To reach either of these lines of buildings I would have to be in a room two doors from my own in one case on the north and in the other case on the south and my mind instantly set to work calculating what chances I had of making the transfer.
17658,"He declares that at no period was he altogether insensible that, dully and confusedly, he was aware of everything which happened to him, from the moment in which he was pronounced dead by his physicians, to that in which he fell swooning to the floor of the hospital."
17659,There is no trace or tidings of her at all....
17660,"Persecuted and tortured as I am and have been, can death be any evil to me?"" ""Nothing indeed could be more unfortunate and agonizing than the strange chances that have lately occurred."
17661,"I have devoted my creator, the select specimen of all that is worthy of love and admiration among men, to misery; I have pursued him even to that irremediable ruin."
17662,"The deep, the poignant, the overwhelming mortification, which upon each such failure of his praise worthy endeavors, would suffuse every lineament of his countenance, left not the slightest room for doubt of his sincerity in the bosoms of even his most skeptical companions."
17663,"The nature of Perdita was less perfect; but tenderness and happiness improved her temper, and softened her natural reserve."
17664,I tried to soothe her; I bade her hope; I asked what tremendous consequences would ensue even on our failure.
17665,IT was a quiet and still afternoon when I strolled forth in the goodly city of Edina.
17666,"The mind of Raymond was not so rough cast, nor had been so rudely handled, in the circumstance of life, as to make him proof to these considerations on the contrary, he was all nerve; his spirit was as a pure fire, which fades and shrinks from every contagion of foul atmosphere: but now the contagion had become incorporated with its essence, and the change was the more painful."
17667,"In draughts, on the contrary, where the moves are unique and have but little variation, the probabilities of inadvertence are diminished, and the mere attention being left comparatively unemployed, what advantages are obtained by either party are obtained by superior acumen."
17668,"His father, the Minister G , died young."
17669,"But pardon me, I entreat you and listen to me: do not turn away from me; do not be impatient; you may easily intimidate me into silence, but my heart is bursting, nor can I willingly consent to endure for one moment longer the agony of uncertitude which for the last four months has been my portion."
17670,"Clara often accompanied him in these excursions; partly that she might see her parents, partly because Adrian delighted in the prattle, and intelligent looks of this lovely child."
17671,"The porter opened the gates of the court, which had that night been my asylum, and I issued into the streets, pacing them with quick steps, as if I sought to avoid the wretch whom I feared every turning of the street would present to my view."
17672,My mother's tender caresses and my father's smile of benevolent pleasure while regarding me are my first recollections.
17673,The youth's own pastor Dr. Wallace of Asbury M. E. Church in Arkham had gravely urged him not to join any church in Innsmouth.
17674,"This was done by fellows who had no pocket handkerchief."""
17675,"I sought the hills; a west wind swept them, and the stars glittered above."
17676,"But no care could re animate her, no medicine cause her dear eyes to open, and the blood to flow again from her pulseless heart."
17677,"Alas ye were the last of happiness that I ever enjoyed; a few, a very few weeks and all was destroyed."
17678,"Windsor is not my home; my true home I have found; the home that the Creator has prepared for me."""
17679,"No man in Holland certainly; yet here, under the very noses of the people, or rather at some distance above their noses was the identical thing in question, and composed, I have it on the best authority, of the precise material which no one had ever before known to be used for a similar purpose."
17680,"Clocks time space infinity and then my fancy reverted to the local as I reflected that even now, beyond the roof and the fog and the rain and the atmosphere, Corona Borealis was rising in the northeast."
17681,"This companion dying, the animal fell into his own exclusive possession."
17682,Then you stop and grind; looking as if you meant to stop and grind till doomsday.
17683,"Sir Robert himself, after repeated attempts at suicide and a stubborn refusal to utter any articulate sound, died of apoplexy in the second year of his confinement."
17684,"It was plain that Manton knew more than I, but he told nothing to the puzzled and interested physicians till he had learned what our injuries were."
17685,"Do your duty towards me, and I will do mine towards you and the rest of mankind."
17686,"London, which had extended so far in suburbs in all direction, had been somewhat deserted in the midst, and much of what had in former days obscured this vast building was removed."
17687,"Even as she spoke I drew near to her, as if in terror, lest at that very moment the destroyer had been near to rob me of her."
17688,"It being still daylight, I descended to the Square and looked around for a dinner of some sort; noticing as I did so the strange glances I received from the unwholesome loafers."
17689,"Thus the happy dandy Flos Aeris of Java bears, it is said, a beautiful flower, which will live when pulled up by the roots."
17690,"What, indeed, was my passion for the young girl of the valley in comparison with the fervor, and the delirium, and the spirit lifting ecstasy of adoration with which I poured out my whole soul in tears at the feet of the ethereal Ermengarde?"
17691,"""Sure nuff, massa; mus look."
17692,"The stones that once obstructed the way had been carefully placed not thrown along the sides of the lane, so as to define its boundaries at bottom with a kind of half precise, half negligent, and wholly picturesque definition."
17693,"The youth's febrile mind, apparently, was dwelling on strange things; and the doctor shuddered now and then as he spoke of them."
17694,"Even broken in spirit as he is, no one can feel more deeply than he does the beauties of nature."
17695,I held the lantern motionless.
17696,"On their departure, they took the road to some thick woods in the vicinity."
17697,"He was a small, lean, bent person, with shabby clothes, blue eyes, grotesque, satyr like face, and nearly bald head; and at my first words seemed both angered and frightened."
17698,"The youth said that he was very restless, seldom sitting around the station for more than an hour or two at a time."
17699,"And because my fathers had called me to the old town beyond, I pushed on through the shallow, new fallen snow along the road that soared lonely up to where Aldebaran twinkled among the trees; on toward the very ancient town I had never seen but often dreamed of."
17700,"But then, the homes and sheds of Dunwich folk have never been remarkable for olfactory immaculateness."
17701,"I shall not pause in my exertions until that time; but, if plague revives with the coming year, all contest with her must cease, and our only occupation be the choice of a grave."""
17702,"I ventured a jest or two, and he made a sickening attempt at a smile."
17703,We are said to love much those whom we greatly benefit.
17704,Erringly and strangely she began the task of self examination with self condemnation.
17705,"Yes he would let him see how much he was mistaken, the puppy He, Touch and go Bullet head, of Frogpondium, would let Mr. John Smith perceive that he, Bullet head, could indite, if it so pleased him, a whole paragraph aye a whole article in which that contemptible vowel should not once not even once make its appearance."
17706,On her deathbed the fortitude and benignity of this best of women did not desert her.
17707,"She longed to bid me hasten my return; a thousand conflicting emotions rendered her mute as she bade me a tearful, silent farewell."
17708,"Now, at this evening hour, at the period of repose and refection, methinks all hearts breathe one hymn of love and thanksgiving, and we, like priests of old on the mountain tops, give a voice to their sentiment."
17709,"This marked the beginning of a course of cattle buying on the part of small Wilbur's family which ended only in , when the Dunwich horror came and went; yet at no time did the ramshackle Whateley barn seem overcrowded with livestock."
17710,"If you can, in any way, make it convenient, come over with Jupiter."
17711,There was Bibulus O'Bumper.
17712,"It had been displayed early in life, leading her out to solitary musing among her native mountains, causing her to form innumerous combinations from common objects, giving strength to her perceptions, and swiftness to their arrangement."
17713,I have detailed the perfections of my sister; and yet she was utterly unlike Idris.
17714,"I was like you once, and I did it."
17715,"Her passions had subdued her appetites, even her natural wants; she slept little, and hardly ate at all; her body was evidently considered by her as a mere machine, whose health was necessary for the accomplishment of her schemes, but whose senses formed no part of her enjoyment."
17716,"What are your plans, my Lord Protector, for the benefit of our country?"""
17717,"You, therefore, did not design the skull, and no one else was present to do it."
17718,My opinion of my whole experience varies from time to time.
17719,"""Dolt"" said the third."
17720,"On the contrary, she seemed strangely proud of the dark, goatish looking infant who formed such a contrast to her own sickly and pink eyed albinism, and was heard to mutter many curious prophecies about its unusual powers and tremendous future."
17721,"Are you a coward, Woodville?"
17722,By degrees the idea of cultivation subsided into that of merely pastoral care.
17723,"I do not say that if his own desires had been put in competition with those of others that he would have displayed undue selfishness, but this trial was never made."
17724,The rest of the shank was in the gimlet hole where it had been broken off.
17725,"Soon our poor nurse expired; and the anguish of suspense was changed to deep regret, which though at first more painful, yet yielded with greater readiness to my consolations."
17726,"""If she is, God forbid that she should suffer as guilty."
17727,"With one exception, you are the only human being besides myself and my valet, who has been admitted within the mysteries of these imperial precincts, since they have been bedizzened as you see"" I bowed in acknowledgment for the overpowering sense of splendor and perfume, and music, together with the unexpected eccentricity of his address and manner, prevented me from expressing, in words, my appreciation of what I might have construed into a compliment."
17728,A man would make but a very sorry chemist if he attended to that department of human knowledge alone.
17729,"The removal of the slab revealed a black aperture, from which rushed an effluence of miasmal gases so nauseous that we started back in horror."
17730,"She is a year nearer unto Death; for I did not fail to see that, as she came into the shade, her shadow fell from her, and was swallowed up in the dark water, making its blackness more black."""
17731,"""Food, however, became scarce, and I often spent the whole day searching in vain for a few acorns to assuage the pangs of hunger."
17732,"Down unpaved side streets I saw the black, gaping windows of deserted hovels, many of which leaned at perilous and incredible angles through the sinking of part of the foundations."
17733,I stepped boldly and briskly forward.
17734,After that I went to Sydney and talked profitlessly with seamen and members of the vice admiralty court.
17735,I noticed that at least two thirds of these guests were ladies; and some of the latter were by no means accoutred in what a Parisian would consider good taste at the present day.
17736,"What wonder, then, that the lath like tenuity of my acquaintance, and his altitude, which has grown into a proverb, should have met with all due estimation in the eyes of Mrs. Lackobreath."
17737,"Before, she had been visited by pangs of fear now, she never enjoyed an interval of hope."
17738,"They could picture to their imaginations a mode many modes and a motive many motives; and because it was not impossible that either of these numerous modes and motives could have been the actual one, they have taken it for granted that one of them must."
17739,"""This,"" said I at length, to the old man ""this can be nothing else than the great whirlpool of the Maelström."""
17740,Encourage the people by your presence.
17741,"""Do you know what that is?"" he whispered."
17742,Had he himself talked as well as walked around the house in his sleep?
17743,"Once a writing of his fell into Perdita's hands; it was blotted with tears well might any blot it with the like ""Life"" it began thus ""is not the thing romance writers describe it; going through the measures of a dance, and after various evolutions arriving at a conclusion, when the dancers may sit down and repose."
17744,"She seated herself then on the same ottoman where I had left her in the morning resting on the beating heart of her Raymond; I dared not approach her, but sat at a distant corner, watching her starting and nervous gestures."
17745,"But during the dreams they did not horrify me at all I was one with them; wearing their unhuman trappings, treading their aqueous ways, and praying monstrously at their evil sea bottom temples."
17746,We had entered the Castle.
17747,I earned that; I deserved it.
17748,"I took the entire building, room by room; devoting the nights of a whole week to each."
17749,"we, especially, who occupy the mid region of the cluster the very locality near which, at least, must be situated this inconceivable central sun."
17750,He held out his hand with almost a bashful air.
17751,"I then went to Idris, contriving in my way, plausible excuses for remaining all day in the Castle, and endeavouring to disperse the traces of care from my brow."
17752,I wish to look through it.
17753,But through the whole period during which I was the slave of my creature I allowed myself to be governed by the impulses of the moment; and my present sensations strongly intimated that the fiend would follow me and exempt my family from the danger of his machinations.
17754,"He is now much recovered from his illness and is continually on the deck, apparently watching for the sledge that preceded his own."
17755,"Life had become an insistent and almost unendurable cacophony, and there was that constant, terrifying impression of other sounds perhaps from regions beyond life trembling on the very brink of audibility."
17756,"""Read now,"" replied Dupin, ""this passage from Cuvier."""
17757,"'The Prince of ts,' therefore, is upon his hinder legs, running for his life."
17758,The mere presence of the idea was an irresistible proof of the fact.
17759,"We all hed to take the Oath o' Dagon, an' later on they was secon' an' third Oaths that some on us took."
17760,"All at once the dog started up abruptly, gave a frightened bark, and leaped nervously out of the window by which it had entered."
17761,"The old ledger was at length given wholly into the charge of Dr. Armitage, both because of his peculiar interest in the Whateley matter, and because of his wide linguistic learning and skill in the mystical formulae of antiquity and the Middle Ages."
17762,"Turning my head gently to one side, I perceived, to my extreme horror, that the huge, glittering, scimetar like minute hand of the clock had, in the course of its hourly revolution, descended upon my neck."
17763,"I reproached myself bitterly for what I called a culpable weakness; but this weakness returned upon me whenever the critical moment approached, and I never found courage to depart."
17764,"It was amply large enough for a man to wriggle through; and though no sane person would have tried it at that time, I forgot danger, reason, and cleanliness in my single minded fever to unearth the lurking fear."
17765,"Each alteration of the natural scenery may possibly effect a blemish in the picture, if we can suppose this picture viewed at large in mass from some point distant from the earth's surface, although not beyond the limits of its atmosphere."
17766,"Three of the Emma's men, including Capt."
17767,"""P.S. by Mr. Ainsworth."
17768,"I will change my plate, however, and try some of the rabbit."""
17769,This promise drew from me the warmest thanks.
17770,"It had not left behind quite all that it had attacked, for sometimes it had been hungry."
17771,"Quitting the wall, I resolved to cross the area of the enclosure."
17772,"For several days ensuing, her name was unmentioned by either Usher or myself: and during this period I was busied in earnest endeavors to alleviate the melancholy of my friend."
17773,"For that very fresh body, at last writhing into full and terrifying consciousness with eyes dilated at the memory of its last scene on earth, threw out its frantic hands in a life and death struggle with the air; and suddenly collapsing into a second and final dissolution from which there could be no return, screamed out the cry that will ring eternally in my aching brain: ""Help Keep off, you cursed little tow head fiend keep that damned needle away from me"" V."
17774,"She thanked him in the most ardent terms for his intended services towards her parent, and at the same time she gently deplored her own fate."
17775,"Upon the whole, no person could be less liable than myself to be led away from the severe precincts of truth by the ignes fatui of superstition."
17776,"The men in olive drab could not tell what was happening, or what they ought to do; for the swart, sinister men were skilled in subtlety and concealment."
17777,and vat den? vat de matter now?
17778,"His rank his least merit, do you say?"
17779,I knew myself no longer.
17780,"Indeed, there were always vague local tales of unexplained stenches upstairs in the Witch House just after May Eve and Hallowmass."
17781,"""Wal, as I says, the natives met the things on the little volcanic islet goin' thar in canoes with the sacrifices et cet'ry, and bringin' back any of the gold like jools as was comin' to 'em."
17782,"Heh, heh, heh, heh. . ."
17783,For many days Adrian and Idris continued to visit me thus.
17784,"As it was, trembling, cold, and pale, she sought Raymond."
17785,"A sufficient analysis will show that pleasure, in all cases, is but the contrast of pain."
17786,"""Pardon me,"" he replied, ""if I have offended."
17787,"All this appeared to me, I own, methodized madness."
17788,Would they refuse him?
17789,"I did not fail to observe, also, the form of the parchment."
17790,"Though not as yet licenced physicians, we now had our degrees, and were pressed frantically into public service as the numbers of the stricken grew."
17791,"In his brief conversation the stranger had made it clear that he was unknown in Bolton, and a search of his pockets subsequently revealed him to be one Robert Leavitt of St. Louis, apparently without a family to make instant inquiries about his disappearance."
17792,The confession I am about to make will add another to the already almost innumerable instances of the truth of the position.
17793,"But, ere long the heaven of this pure affection became darkened, and gloom, and horror, and grief swept over it in clouds."
17794,"Its shrill loathsome tittering stuck more and more in Gilman's head, and he could remember in the morning how it had pronounced the words ""Azathoth"" and ""Nyarlathotep""."
17795,"Thus the pressure of your sweet fingers upon my eyelids, at first only recognised through vision, at length, long after their removal, filled my whole being with a sensual delight immeasurable."
17796,"In this sweet tongue, so adapted to passion, I gave loose to the impetuous enthusiasm of my nature, and, with all the eloquence I could command, besought her to consent to an immediate marriage."
17797,"""Farewell I leave you, and in you the last of humankind whom these eyes will ever behold."
17798,Meanwhile there grew up about the mansion and the mountain a body of diabolic legendry.
17799,"Yet I fear such will be my fate; the men, unsupported by ideas of glory and honour, can never willingly continue to endure their present hardships."
17800,"But these they do exceedingly well, and intersperse them, with singular ingenuity, wherever they find room for the chisel."
17801,"For some minutes after this fancy possessed me, I remained without motion."
17802,"When Raymond offered to clear her reputation, and demonstrate to the world her real patriotism, she declared that it was only through her present sufferings that she hoped for any relief to the stings of conscience; that, in her state of mind, diseased as he might think it, the necessity of occupation was salutary medicine; she ended by extorting a promise that for the space of one month he would refrain from the discussion of her interests, engaging after that time to yield in part to his wishes."
17803,"Idris, you will not act the traitor towards me?"" ""Trust me,"" replied she, ""I will preserve a strict neutrality."""
17804,"This operation being repeated several times, at length filled the chamber with atmosphere proper for all the purposes of respiration."
17805,"There had, Mr. Peabody said, been considerable discussion about the marriage of her father, Benjamin Orne, just after the Civil War; since the ancestry of the bride was peculiarly puzzling."
17806,"Among these odd folk, who correspond exactly to the decadent element of ""white trash"" in the South, law and morals are non existent; and their general mental status is probably below that of any other section of the native American people."
17807,We mean you no harm whatever.
17808,You came the embodied image of my fondest dreams.
17809,"Years hence we shall recount to them our fears, then passed away with their occasion."
17810,Perdita smiled faintly her guest left her; the carriage rolling down the street assured the final departure.
17811,"This done, and the dog having been unmuzzled, we turned in profound silence towards home."
17812,"At one period I thought of cutting the corpse into minute fragments, and destroying them by fire."
17813,"We were fatigued by our struggles to attain this point, and seated ourselves on the rocky couch, while the sounds of tinkling sheep bells, and shout of shepherd boy, reached us from above."
17814,"I now remembered that, in fact, a fruiterer, carrying upon his head a large basket of apples, had nearly thrown me down, by accident, as we passed from the Rue C into the thoroughfare where we stood; but what this had to do with Chantilly I could not possibly understand."
17815,Let us pursue our fancies.
17816,"That Gilman talked in his sleep was plain, and it was obviously from Desrochers' keyhole listenings that the delusive notion of the violet dream light had got abroad."
17817,"I had been deceived, too, in respect to the shape of the enclosure."
17818,"Clearly, my nerves were sorely taxed, and I must cast off these impressions of weaker men."
17819,"The old man saw it, and stopped whispering even before my expression of horror made it necessary; saw it and glanced quickly toward the floor of the room he had left an hour before."
17820,"Nobly and greatly, he said, had the illustrious and last sovereign of England sacrificed himself to the apparent good of his country, and divested himself of a power which could only be maintained by the blood of his subjects these subjects named so no more, these, his friends and equals, had in gratitude conferred certain favours and distinctions on him and his family for ever."
17821,"""Oh, it is not thus not thus,"" interrupted the being."
17822,"A terrace, with an old moss covered balustrade, calls up at once to the eye, the fair forms that have passed there in other days."
17823,"And den he keep a syphon all de time "" ""Keeps a what, Jupiter?"" ""Keeps a syphon wid de figgurs on de slate de queerest figgurs I ebber did see."
17824,"The curtain drew up, and the stage presented the scene of the witches' cave."
17825,"Old Man Marsh was never seen, but sometimes went to the works in a closed, curtained car."
17826,"""True true,"" I replied; ""and, indeed, I had no intention of alarming you unnecessarily but you should use all proper caution."
17827,"My mule was brought to the door, and I resolved to ascend to the summit of Montanvert."
17828,"The rabble were in terror, for upon an evil tenement had fallen a red death beyond the foulest previous crime of the neighbourhood."
17829,"For example, the servant gossip was practically unanimous in attributing to the fungous and malodorous cellar of the house a vast supremacy in evil influence."
17830,"Diddling, rightly considered, is a compound, of which the ingredients are minuteness, interest, perseverance, ingenuity, audacity, nonchalance, originality, impertinence, and grin."
17831,"My parents, in dying, had bequeathed me to him as a rich legacy."
17832,"""Our author's observations on the artificial style of gardening,"" continued Mr. Ellison, ""are less objectionable."
17833,Now the direct inference from this is that the machine is not a pure machine.
17834,"so did he spring up from listlessness and unproductive thought, to the highest pitch of virtuous action."
17835,"At this horror I sank nearly to the lichened earth, transfixed with a dread not of this nor any world, but only of the mad spaces between the stars."
17836,The mathematics afford no more absolute demonstrations than the sentiments of his art yields the artist.
17837,"God, what a rage I'd hate to have it aimed at me ""Why did you do it, Birch?"
17838,"I could sleep a little after they had done this, but true rest will never come as long as I remember that nameless secret of the lurking fear."
17839,The police were thoroughly satisfied and prepared to depart.
17840,"She thought of the treasure she possessed in the affections of her lord; of his accomplishments, surpassing those of his contemporaries, his genius, his devotion to her."
17841,"To suspect evil, to perceive that, Alfred being with us, the danger must regard her youngest darling, to fly across the long chambers into his apartment, was the work but of a moment."
17842,"And whether it were to visit beautiful scenery, or to see fine pictures, or sometimes for no object but to seek amusement as it might chance to arise, I was always happy when near my father."
17843,"The dazzling sun and glare of daylight, deprived the scene of solemnity; from Evadne's low tomb, I joined Raymond and his staff, now on their way to the Golden City."
17844,"The dreams were wholly beyond the pale of sanity, and Gilman felt that they must be a result, jointly, of his studies in mathematics and in folklore."
17845,"A little patience, and all will be over; aye, a very little patience; for, look, there is the key of our prison; we hold it in our own hands, and are we more debased than slaves to cast it away and give ourselves up to voluntary bondage?"
17846,"Adrian's chief endeavour, after the immediate succour of the sick, had been to disguise the symptoms and progress of the plague from the inhabitants of London."
17847,She appeared of a different stock.
17848,"Lest you think me a biassed witness, another's pen must add this final testimony, which may perhaps supply the climax you expect."
17849,"This is all which is proved, if any thing is."
17850,"The spirit of his vows he made no scruple of setting at naught, but the letter was a bond inviolable."
17851,"I should there find solitude where I might weep, and the voices of life might never reach me."
17852,"At last the French element had appeared that, and another deeper element of horror which the name conjured up from the darkest recesses of my weird and heterogeneous reading and I feverishly studied the platting of the locality as it had been before the cutting through and partial straightening of Back Street between and ."
17853,"And yet all the morning, and indeed until late in the afternoon, there was a gentle and steady breeze from the south west, while the sun shone brightly, so that the oldest seaman among us could not have foreseen what was to follow."
17854,"""Referring, now, to the beginning of the cryptograph, we find the combination, ."
17855,"I mention this circumstance, because I think it probable that hereafter the individual in question may attempt a balloon ascension with the novel gas and material I have spoken of, and I do not wish to deprive him of the honor of a very singular invention."
17856,"That Von Kempelen and his immediate friends will reap a rich harvest, it would be folly to doubt for a moment."
17857,It was then that the most horrible impression of all was borne in upon me the impression which destroyed my last vestige of self control and set me running frantically southward past the yawning black doorways and fishily staring windows of that deserted nightmare street.
17858,My tenderness of heart was even so conspicuous as to make me the jest of my companions.
17859,"Despondency rarely visited my heart; a high destiny seemed to bear me on, until I fell, never, never again to rise."""
17860,"August th, You have read this strange and terrific story, Margaret; and do you not feel your blood congeal with horror, like that which even now curdles mine?"
17861,"Tell me, however, in what way he passes his time; what he is doing and thinking in his cottage retreat?"" ""Nay, my sweet sister,"" replied Adrian, ""you ask me more than I can well answer; but if you feel interest in him, why not visit him?"
17862,"She seemed pleased and went into the garden for some roots and plants, which she placed in water, and then upon the fire."
17863,We could not perceive its necessity.
17864,It were useless to record the debate that followed this harangue.
17865,"From a position fronting my own, he had gradually brought round his chair, so as to sit with his face to the door of the chamber; and thus I could but partially perceive his features, although I saw that his lips trembled as if he were murmuring inaudibly."
17866,"Gasping, not daring to name our hopes, yet full even to the brim with intense expectation, we stood, as a ship wrecked sailor stands on a barren rock islanded by the ocean, watching a distant vessel, fancying that now it nears, and then again that it is bearing from sight."
17867,"After a tiresome harangue in his ordinary style, he took down from his book shelves a number of musty volumes on the subject of the duello, and entertained me for a long time with their contents; reading aloud, and commenting earnestly as he read."
17868,"Although more than sixteen years had passed since her death nothing had been changed; her work box, her writing desk were still there and in her room a book lay open on the table as she had left it."
17869,"All at once my attention was captured by a vast and singular object on the opposite slope, which rose steeply about an hundred yards ahead of me; an object that gleamed whitely in the newly bestowed rays of the ascending moon."
17870,"Was it not probable that these symptoms would increase indefinitely, or at least until terminated by death itself?"
17871,But don't get the idea that it was all this hideous business of theme and setting which struck me faint.
17872,"His soul seemed to distil itself into the words he wrote; and they breathed on the paper, bearing with them a portion of the life of love, which was his life."
17873,"But during the tumult occasioned by this occurrence, the young nobleman himself sat apparently buried in meditation, in a vast and desolate upper apartment of the family palace of Metzengerstein."
17874,I bent over her and placed the portrait securely in one of the folds of her dress.
17875,"On this occasion, my sister was not alone; nor could I fail to recognise her companion: it was Idris, the till now unseen object of my mad idolatry."
17876,"I say, you shall have Kate and her plum when three Sundays come together in a week but not till then you young scapegrace not till then, if I die for it."
17877,"I brought Rosalind and Miranda and the lady of Comus to life to be my companions, or on my isle acted over their parts imagining myself to be in their situations."
17878,"As it came fully into view thus gradually as I describe it piece by piece, here a tree, there a glimpse of water, and here again the summit of a chimney, I could scarcely help fancying that the whole was one of the ingenious illusions sometimes exhibited under the name of ""vanishing pictures."""
17879,She was uncomplaining; but the very soul of fear had taken its seat in her heart.
17880,"I was making money at this business when, in an evil moment, I was induced to merge it in the Cur Spattering a somewhat analogous, but, by no means, so respectable a profession."
17881,"I followed the accounts languidly at first, for I am a connoisseur in horrors; but after a week I detected an atmosphere which stirred me oddly, so that on August th, , I registered among the reporters who crowded the hotel at Lefferts Corners, nearest village to Tempest Mountain and acknowledged headquarters of the searchers."
17882,"But I am about to die nay, interrupt me not soon I shall die."
17883,"I can't read an Anacreontic without watering at the mouth and it's something a lot stronger than water that my mouth waters for"" ""Anacreontic what 'n hell's that?"" several hangers on looked up as the young man went slightly beyond their depth."
17884,And the remembrance fills your heart sometimes with bitter despair when otherwise your feelings would have melted into soft sorrow.
17885,"Would to God I had let them share the search, that I might not have had to bear the secret alone so long; to bear it alone for fear the world would call me mad or go mad itself at the daemon implications of the thing."
17886,The coat was nearly new.
17887,"She made it her task to attend the sick, comfort the sorrowing, assist the aged, and partake the sports and awaken the gaiety of the young."
17888,"A piece of one of the unfortunate girl's petticoats, two feet long and one foot wide, was torn out and tied under her chin around the back of her head, probably to prevent screams."
17889,"I would have prevented this; my death would be a small evil or rather I should not die; while you cannot hope to escape."""
17890,"But now there were twelve strokes to be sounded by the bell of the clock; and thus it happened, perhaps, that more of thought crept, with more of time, into the meditations of the thoughtful among those who revelled."
17891,"He hurried in, and witnessed the termination of my impassioned harangue."
17892,"My knowledge of the thing began in the winter of with the death of my grand uncle George Gammell Angell, Professor Emeritus of Semitic Languages in Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island."
17893,"Possibly, many suggested, she was the natural daughter of some Marsh of prominence she certainly had the true Marsh eyes."
17894,"After passing some months in London, we received a letter from a person in Scotland who had formerly been our visitor at Geneva."
17895,"""But your grandiloquence, and your conduct in swinging the beetle how excessively odd I was sure you were mad."
17896,"The young girl was occupied in arranging the cottage; but presently she took something out of a drawer, which employed her hands, and she sat down beside the old man, who, taking up an instrument, began to play and to produce sounds sweeter than the voice of the thrush or the nightingale."
17897,Must he tax the landed interest to assist our commercial population?
17898,"Carefully locking the door on the inside, I commenced a vigorous search."
17899,"A bubbling spring prattles over stones on one side, and a plantation of a few elms and beeches, hardly deserve, and yet continue the name of wood."
17900,The second object of the cloth is to deaden and render indistinct all sounds occasioned by the movements of the person within. .
17901,In the meantime he told me that my friend had certainly not many hours to live.
17902,"One man's life or death were but a small price to pay for the acquirement of the knowledge which I sought, for the dominion I should acquire and transmit over the elemental foes of our race."
17903,"This will I do, I said."
17904,"""And you have now changed all this and you think for the better?"" ""Decidedly."
17905,"Remember that I am thy creature; I ought to be thy Adam, but I am rather the fallen angel, whom thou drivest from joy for no misdeed."
17906,She pictured to herself the anguish of his solitude; she remembered with what eager delight he had in former days made her the partner of his joyful hopes with what grateful affection he received her sympathy in his cares.
17907,"The excited countryside immediately connected the horror with the haunted Martense mansion, though the localities were over three miles apart."
17908,"Them things told the Kanakys that ef they mixed bloods there'd be children as ud look human at fust, but later turn more'n more like the things, till finally they'd take to the water an' jine the main lot o' things daown thar."
17909,"He is not, however, as you suppose, dizzy with magnificence, nor drunk with the ecstatic breath of those innumerable censers."
17910,"Another was a hickory, much larger than the elm, and altogether a much finer tree, although both were exceedingly beautiful: it seemed to have taken charge of the northwestern entrance, springing from a group of rocks in the very jaws of the ravine, and throwing its graceful body, at an angle of nearly forty five degrees, far out into the sunshine of the amphitheatre."
17911,"However this may be, it is certain that they worshipped a sea green stone idol chiselled in the likeness of Bokrug, the great water lizard; before which they danced horribly when the moon was gibbous."
17912,"But the tumult without becoming suddenly more violent, with a compulsory exertion he diverted his attention to the glare of ruddy light thrown full by the flaming stables upon the windows of the apartment."
17913,"""And then,"" said a cadaverous looking personage, near the foot of the table, taking up the thread of the conversation where it had been broken off, ""and then, among other oddities, we had a patient, once upon a time, who very pertinaciously maintained himself to be a Cordova cheese, and went about, with a knife in his hand, soliciting his friends to try a small slice from the middle of his leg."""
17914,Meantime I sank aghast into the chair which she had vacated.
17915,"""Indeed;"" repeated the vassal."
17916,"They often, I believe, suffered the pangs of hunger very poignantly, especially the two younger cottagers, for several times they placed food before the old man when they reserved none for themselves."
17917,It had lost an arm if it had been a perfect body we might have succeeded better.
17918,But the task imposed on Perdita was not the less painful.
17919,"One night he had burst wildly into Sheehan's, foaming at the mouth and screaming for whiskey and hasheesh; and having been supplied in exchange for a promise to perform odd jobs, had hung about ever since, mopping floors, cleaning cuspidors and glasses, and attending to an hundred similar menial duties in exchange for the drink and drugs which were necessary to keep him alive and sane."
17920,I started up and resolved to return to Geneva with all possible speed.
17921,"Atop the tallest of earth's peaks dwell the gods of earth, and suffer no man to tell that he hath looked upon them."
17922,"Do not you desert me in the hour of trial' ""'Great God' exclaimed the old man."
17923,The shrill voice was very loud louder than the gruff one.
17924,He's supposed to have developed some skin disease or deformity late in life that makes him keep out of sight.
17925,Let him send me this regiment.
17926,"He had endeavoured to persuade his father to permit him to accompany me and to become my fellow student, but in vain."
17927,We feared the coming summer.
17928,"Ever since my recovery from the fever I had been in the custom of taking every night a small quantity of laudanum, for it was by means of this drug only that I was enabled to gain the rest necessary for the preservation of life."
17929,"The shrieking, roaring confusion of sound which permeated the abysses was past all analysis as to pitch, timbre, or rhythm; but seemed to be synchronous with vague visual changes in all the indefinite objects, organic and inorganic alike."
17930,"They are encrusted with nitre."""
17931,"There were, however, many particulars inducing me to believe that my average rate of travelling might possibly very much exceed that of thirty miles per hour, and, as these considerations did not fail to make a deep impression upon my mind, I will mention them more fully hereafter."
17932,"""I forget your arms."""
17933,I caught it from Fatquack whizz fizz and I am giving you a specimen of it now.
17934,"""And then,"" said some other one of the party, ""then there was Bouffon Le Grand another extraordinary personage in his way."
17935,"And as she breathed her last sighs, there came mingled with them a low murmur from her lips."
17936,"But in regard to the shrill voice, the peculiarity is not that they disagreed but that, while an Italian, an Englishman, a Spaniard, a Hollander, and a Frenchman attempted to describe it, each one spoke of it as that of a foreigner."
17937,"His connection with Adrian and Perdita was never mentioned; he was to her a meteor, a companionless star, which at its appointed hour rose in her hemisphere, whose appearance brought felicity, and which, although it set, was never eclipsed."
17938,"His body was a wine pipe, or a rum puncheon, or something of that character, and had a truly Falstaffian air."
17939,I planned the whole scene with an earnest heart and franticly set my soul on this project.
17940,"I could not see his face, but had an opportunity of observing his general appearance."
17941,"I again plunged into excess, and soon drowned in wine all memory of the deed."
17942,"As I surveyed this quaint apartment, I felt an increase in that aversion first excited by the bleak exterior of the house."
17943,I found it a matter of exceeding difficulty to squeeze myself in.
17944,"I was firmly convinced in my own mind that Justine, and indeed every human being, was guiltless of this murder."
17945,"You behold around you, it is true, a medley of architectural embellishments."
17946,"The legs were at full length; the arms were nearly so, and reposed on the bed at a moderate distance from the loin."
17947,He compared the royal and republican spirit; shewed how the one tended to enslave the minds of men; while all the institutions of the other served to raise even the meanest among us to something great and good.
17948,"In Babson Street, which crossed Federal and might thus reveal me to the searchers, I clung as closely as possible to the sagging, uneven buildings; twice pausing in a doorway as the noises behind me momentarily increased."
17949,"When I stood on my native hills, and saw plain and mountain stretch out to the utmost limits of my vision, speckled by the dwellings of my countrymen, and subdued to fertility by their labours, the earth's very centre was fixed for me in that spot, and the rest of her orb was as a fable, to have forgotten which would have cost neither my imagination nor understanding an effort."
17950,"The new gas is doing wonders, in conjunction with the new improvement with gutta percha."
17951,"What annoyed me was merely the persistent way in which the volume tended to fall open of itself at Plate XII, which represented in gruesome detail a butcher's shop of the cannibal Anziques."
17952,I wait in quiet expectation for the closing hours of a life which has been to me most sweet bitter.
17953,"""More space, Willy, more space soon."
17954,"In my case, the primary object was invariably frivolous, although assuming, through the medium of my distempered vision, a refracted and unreal importance."
17955,"In the third volume of the ""American Quarterly Review"" will be found quite an elaborate criticism upon a certain ""journey"" of the kind in question a criticism in which it is difficult to say whether the critic most exposes the stupidity of the book, or his own absurd ignorance of astronomy."
17956,"It is to the absence of idiosyncratic organs, therefore, that we must attribute the nearly unlimited perception of the ultimate life."
17957,"And I lay close within shelter of the lilies, and observed the actions of the man."
17958,"Not that the matter might not have been as inferred, but that there was no ground for the inference: was there not much for another?"
17959,Then I noticed a few inhabited houses with rags stuffed in the broken windows and shells and dead fish lying about the littered yards.
17960,"There was only one person in sight an elderly man without what I had come to call the ""Innsmouth look"" and I decided not to ask him any of the questions which bothered me; remembering that odd things had been noticed in this hotel."
17961,"By this time the restoration of the house was finished, and those who watched it wondered why one of the upper windows had been made into a solid plank door."
17962,"The thing done, however; the wonder accomplished; and the capacity for apprehension becomes universal."
17963,"You may deem me romantic, my dear sister, but I bitterly feel the want of a friend."
17964,Sometimes she felt proud that he had preferred her to the hopes of a crown.
17965,"""We say, 'most intelligible' 'Oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, will be kind enough to tell us, perhaps, how 'hail' can be 'holy light' We always regarded it as frozen rain."
17966,You grieve because you are unhappy; it is happiness you seek but you despair of obtaining it.
17967,"It seemed to lead up, up like a natural causeway, into the recesses of unexplored mountains and forests."
17968,"Having become satisfied of his identity, he took a bird's eye view of his whereabouts."
17969,how had I deserved to be so cursed with the removal of my beloved in the hour of her making them?
17970,"I always called at the big houses to deliver the letters, and receive the postage."
17971,"Again groping toward the street, I opened a door off the hall and came upon an empty room with closely shuttered but sashless windows."
17972,I shuddered; I dared not die even though the cold grave held all I loved; although I might say with Job Where is now my hope?
17973,"During the lady's absence from home, a day or two afterwards, a ring is heard at the door of No. so and so, in such and such Avenue; a servant appears; the lady of the house is asked for and is declared to be out, at which astounding information, the visitor expresses the most poignant regret."
17974,"What the Red Glare Meant On the tempest racked night of November , , with a lantern which cast charnel shadows, I stood digging alone and idiotically in the grave of Jan Martense."
17975,While I gazed directly upward at it for its position was immediately over my own I fancied that I saw it in motion.
17976,I had been reserved for the latter.
17977,"This he poised suspiciously in his hand, then eyed it with an air of extreme surprise, and was evidently astonished at its weight."
17978,With deep and reverent awe I replaced the candelabrum in its former position.
17979,"In my delirium I had said much, but found that my words had been given scant attention."
17980,"""In some respects,"" he replied, ""your idea is not irrelevant."
17981,"It argued a capability of believing in phenomena beyond all normal notions; for if a dead man can transmit his visible or tangible image half across the world, or down the stretch of the centuries, how can it be absurd to suppose that deserted houses are full of queer sentient things, or that old graveyards teem with the terrible, unbodied intelligence of generations?"
17982,"One of these he maintained to be the head of Cicero; the other he imagined a composite one, being Demosthenes' from the top of the forehead to the mouth, and Lord Brougham's from the mouth to the chin."
17983,"In the electric light the colour seemed to be a kind of iridescent grey veined with green, and Gilman could see amidst his horror and bewilderment that one of the knobs ended in a jagged break corresponding to its former point of attachment to the dream railing."
17984,"More miserable than man ever was before, why did I not sink into forgetfulness and rest?"
17985,"She found a peasant and his wife, hard working, bent down by care and labour, distributing a scanty meal to five hungry babes."
17986,"Asellius; and the legatus of the whole region, Cn."
17987,"We object to it as a mere theory assumed in the first place, and to which circumstances are afterwards made to adapt themselves."
17988,"He must aim no more at the dear object of his ambition; throwing his arms aside, he must for present ends give up the ultimate object of his endeavours."
17989,"""The noble lady who sits opposite is Queen Pest, our Serene Consort."
17990,From this point the noise was quite deafening.
17991,"He was puzzled by one thing, a peak of solid matter, protruding above the ocean bed nearly four feet at its apex; about two feet thick, with flat sides and smooth upper surfaces which met at a very obtuse angle."
17992,"My statues and ivory heads were all sold, and I had no means to purchase new materials, or energy to fashion them even had I possessed them."
17993,But of the worm's metamorphosis we are palpably cognizant.
17994,What inexpressible madness seized me with that thought?
17995,"His voice seemed suffocated, and my first impulses, which had suggested to me the duty of obeying the dying request of my friend in destroying his enemy, were now suspended by a mixture of curiosity and compassion."
17996,"She heard that we were bound for Greece, that she would see her father, and now, for the first time, she prattled of him to her mother."
17997,"""Entitled,"" I repeated, ""to no earthly commiseration."
17998,"But to lose all to lose with life and love, glory also It shall not be ""I, and in a few brief years, all you, this panic struck army, and all the population of fair Greece, will no longer be."
17999,"On the day in which I visited the ship the fourteenth, Wyatt and party were also to visit it so the captain informed me and I waited on board an hour longer than I had designed, in hope of being presented to the bride, but then an apology came."
18000,My soul was in tumults; I traversed the streets with eager rapidity.
18001,"Very little concerning this skeleton has leaked out, but the workmen who found it whisper in shocked tones about the long, brownish hairs with which it was associated."
18002,"And ever since that hour, through dull dragging years of greyness and weariness, the philosopher has laboured and eaten and slept and done uncomplaining the suitable deeds of a citizen."
18003,"The balloon at first collapsed, then furiously expanded, then whirled round and round with horrible velocity, and finally, reeling and staggering like a drunken man, hurled me with great force over the rim of the car, and left me dangling, at a terrific height, with my head downward, and my face outwards, by a piece of slender cord about three feet in length, which hung accidentally through a crevice near the bottom of the wicker work, and in which, as I fell, my left foot became most providentially entangled."
18004,"As I strained to decipher this inscription my notice was distracted by the raucous tones of a cracked bell across the street, and I quickly turned to look out the window on my side of the coach."
18005,The city was in comparative repose.
18006,"It is clear that Kidd if Kidd indeed secreted this treasure, which I doubt not it is clear that he must have had assistance in the labor."
18007,"The misfortunes of Woodville were not of the hearts core like mine; his was a natural grief, not to destroy but to purify the heart and from which he might, when its shadow had passed from over him, shine forth brighter and happier than before."
18008,Oh that I had words to express the luxury of death that I might win you.
18009,"""Reperuse now that portion of this argument which has reference to the identification of the corpse by Beauvais."
18010,There is some defect in one of his feet.
18011,"I found what I had half expected, that where the shunned house now stood the Roulets had laid out their graveyard behind a one story and attic cottage, and that no record of any transfer of graves existed."
18012,Thank heaven these creatures employed no dogs for tracking though perhaps that would have been impossible amidst the omnipresent regional odour.
18013,I was glad to see the moonlight again when I emerged from that macabre tunnel.
18014,"The tail of that sinuous line of night marchers seemed very horrible, and as I saw them wriggling into a venerable tomb they seemed more horrible still."
18015,Maelzel now informs the company that he will disclose to their view the mechanism of the machine.
18016,"It rang on my ears long and heavily; the mountains re echoed it, and I felt as if all hell surrounded me with mockery and laughter."
18017,"Carter did not taste deeply of these modern freedoms; for their cheapness and squalor sickened a spirit loving beauty alone, while his reason rebelled at the flimsy logic with which their champions tried to gild brute impulse with a sacredness stripped from the idols they had discarded."
18018,"We, descendants from the one and the other, must be enemies also."
18019,"to be enamored of the Night for her own sake; and into this bizarrerie, as into all his others, I quietly fell; giving myself up to his wild whims with a perfect abandon."
18020,"He reeled, and would have crumpled to the ground had not two or three others seized and steadied him."
18021,He was glorious from his youth.
18022,"When they parted for the night, the Countess said, ""To morrow I trust your tone will be changed: be composed; I have agitated you; go to rest; and I will send you a medicine I always take when unduly restless it will give you a quiet night."""
18023,"Do I fear, that my heart palpitates?"
18024,"Either watching the crowd in the park, or occupied by painful reflection, we were all silent; Ryland stood by himself in an embrasure of the window; Adrian paced the hall, revolving some new and overpowering idea suddenly he stopped and said: ""I have long expected this; could we in reason expect that this island should be exempt from the universal visitation?"
18025,"He had the ordinary temperament of genius, and was a compound of misanthropy, sensibility, and enthusiasm."
18026,The night arrives and no sofa.
18027,Three of these are on each side of the figure.
18028,"They had, indeed, come themselves from the stars, and brought Their images with Them."
18029,"As I gained this respite I heard the battering at the two other doors abate, while a confused clatter came from the connecting door I had shielded with the bedstead."
18030,"You will not do this, I know you will not."
18031,"On the morning of April a fresh rat hole appeared in the room where Gilman was a guest, but Dombrowski tinned it up during the day."
18032,"Everything was silent except the leaves of the trees, which were gently agitated by the wind; the night was nearly dark, and the scene would have been solemn and affecting even to an uninterested observer."
18033,"Having carefully perused the column of ""houses to let,"" and the column of ""dogs lost,"" and then the two columns of ""wives and apprentices runaway,"" I attacked with great resolution the editorial matter, and, reading it from beginning to end without understanding a syllable, conceived the possibility of its being Chinese, and so re read it from the end to the beginning, but with no more satisfactory result."
18034,"I have looked upon all that the universe has to hold of horror, and even the skies of spring and the flowers of summer must ever afterward be poison to me."
18035,"Numerous invitations on the part of the neighborhood for a long time, however, periodically came in."
18036,"I am glad Woodville is not with me for perhaps he would grieve, and I desire to see smiles alone during the last scene of my life; when I last wrote to him I told him of my ill health but not of its mortal tendency, lest he should conceive it to be his duty to come to me for I fear lest the tears of friendship should destroy the blessed calm of my mind."
18037,"They were men and women, the sufferers, before they were Mahometans, and when they rise turbanless from the grave, in what except their good or evil actions will they be the better or worse than we?"
18038,"Yet such is human nature, that the excitement of mind was dear to me, and that the imagination, painter of tempest and earthquake, or, worse, the stormy and ruin fraught passions of man, softened my real sorrows and endless regrets, by clothing these fictitious ones in that ideality, which takes the mortal sting from pain."
18039,Wouldn't pull it no go.
18040,"Especially were we apprehensive concerning the mind and impulses of the creature, since in the space following death some of the more delicate cerebral cells might well have suffered deterioration."
18041,"Therefore instead of trying the door I knocked, feeling as I did so a trepidation I could scarcely explain."
18042,"He felt vaguely glad that all his relatives were distant and out of touch with him, for they could not have understood his mental life."
18043,"In the same way, individuals may escape ninety nine times, and receive the death blow at the hundredth; because bodies are sometimes in a state to reject the infection of malady, and at others, thirsty to imbibe it."
18044,In this position he sees the chess board through the bosom of the Turk which is of gauze.
18045,From the medical and court documents we learned all that could be gathered of his case.
18046,"About this period his inability to concentrate on his formal studies worried him considerably, his apprehensions about the mid year examinations being very acute."
18047,"I was bound by a solemn promise which I had not yet fulfilled and dared not break, or if I did, what manifold miseries might not impend over me and my devoted family Could I enter into a festival with this deadly weight yet hanging round my neck and bowing me to the ground?"
18048,"West was a materialist, believing in no soul and attributing all the working of consciousness to bodily phenomena; consequently he looked for no revelation of hideous secrets from gulfs and caverns beyond death's barrier."
18049,"I saw not then what I now clearly perceive, that the acquisitions of Ligeia were gigantic, were astounding; yet I was sufficiently aware of her infinite supremacy to resign myself, with a child like confidence, to her guidance through the chaotic world of metaphysical investigation at which I was most busily occupied during the earlier years of our marriage."
18050,"After a while he began to shudder, and turned away from the scene as if frightened; yet could give no explanation save that he was overcome with the vastness, darkness, remoteness, antiquity, and mystery of the oceanic abysses."
18051,"He began to feel closely akin to Sir Wade, and to seek relics of the latter's personal life in England as well as of his African exploits."
18052,"A rush of cool air greeted me; and though the day was one of the hottest of late June, I shivered as I crossed the threshold into a large apartment whose rich and tasteful decoration surprised me in this nest of squalor and seediness."
18053,"Sometimes I endeavoured to gain from Frankenstein the particulars of his creature's formation, but on this point he was impenetrable."
18054,"Psychologically my case is most interesting, and I regret that it cannot be observed scientifically by a competent German authority."
18055,"""Ay, all proceeds and changes: what wonder then, that love has journied on to its setting, and that the lord of my life has changed?"
18056,But all this vanished in a second.
18057,"My sister was three years younger than myself; I had nursed her as an infant, and when the difference of our sexes, by giving us various occupations, in a great measure divided us, yet she continued to be the object of my careful love."
18058,Thus the usual track of supposition was thoroughly broken up.
18059,This circumstance favored me greatly in the project I now determined to adopt.
18060,"I asked, ""the women and all?"" ""Assuredly,"" he said, ""we could not do at all without the women; they are the best lunatic nurses in the world; they have a way of their own, you know; their bright eyes have a marvellous effect; something like the fascination of the snake, you know."""
18061,In its size I had been greatly mistaken.
18062,V. Hesitating for many minutes.
18063,We all stood equal sharers of the last throes of time worn nature.
18064,Shakespeare's Sonnets.
18065,"It is truly a terrible thing, and unmistakably akin to the dream sculpture of young Wilcox."
18066,From somewhere within the works a dog barked in answer; either to the coyote or to something else.
18067,"And then then, when poring over forbidden pages, I felt a forbidden spirit enkindling within me would Morella place her cold hand upon my own, and rake up from the ashes of a dead philosophy some low, singular words, whose strange meaning burned themselves in upon my memory."
18068,"I had felt that some palpable although invisible object had passed lightly by my person; and I saw that there lay upon the golden carpet, in the very middle of the rich lustre thrown from the censer, a shadow a faint, indefinite shadow of angelic aspect such as might be fancied for the shadow of a shade."
18069,"We replaced and screwed down the lid, and, having secured the door of iron, made our way, with toil, into the scarcely less gloomy apartments of the upper portion of the house."
18070,"In such experiments with this patient I had never perfectly succeeded before, and assuredly I had little thought of succeeding now; but to my astonishment, his arm very readily, although feebly, followed every direction I assigned it with mine."
18071,"Uttering a few sounds with an air of melancholy, he took the pail from her head and bore it to the cottage himself."
18072,"An unwieldy ox, who had fed in an abandoned granary, suddenly lowed, and shewed his shapeless form in a narrow door way; every thing was desert; but nothing was in ruin."
18073,He became the darling hero of this rising people.
18074,"Let me see I will go and ask Pundit and be back in a minute.... Ah, here we have it Here is a book written nearly a thousand years ago and lately translated from the Inglitch which, by the way, appears to have been the rudiment of the Amriccan."
18075,"Sometimes my lawless mood would return, my love of peril, my resistance to authority; but this was in his absence; under the mild sway of his dear eyes, I was obedient and good as a boy of five years old, who does his mother's bidding."
18076,"God, ef anybody'd look'd ahead . . ."
18077,"Now that I had found them, my eagerness was again redoubled; for something in their arrangement dimly hinted that they might be only a few of many such, with dark, dumb counterparts wedged obscurely betwixt high blank walls and deserted rear tenements, or lurking lamplessly behind archways, unbetrayed by hordes of the foreign speaking or guarded by furtive and uncommunicative artists whose practices do not invite publicity or the light of day."
18078,"Here the vast bed of the waters, seamed and scarred into a thousand conflicting channels, burst suddenly into phrensied convulsion heaving, boiling, hissing gyrating in gigantic and innumerable vortices, and all whirling and plunging on to the eastward with a rapidity which water never elsewhere assumes except in precipitous descents."
18079,"The plot of Felix was quickly discovered, and De Lacey and Agatha were thrown into prison."
18080,"The gables are turned to the front, and there are cornices, as big as all the rest of the house, over the eaves and over the main doors."
18081,"I saw no cause for their unhappiness, but I was deeply affected by it."
18082,"This first sense of pain lay in a rigorous constriction of the breast and lungs, and an insufferable dryness of the skin."
18083,"I passed by a group of these terrorists, in a lane in the direct road to the hut."
18084,"The funeral, in short, was hastened, on account of the rapid advance of what was supposed to be decomposition."
18085,"These things should be left to the frigid and impersonal investigator, for they offer two equally tragic alternatives to the man of feeling and action; despair if he fail in his quest, and terrors unutterable and unimaginable if he succeed."
18086,"""Well, Jup,"" said I, ""what is the matter now? how is your master?"" ""Why, to speak de troof, massa, him not so berry well as mought be."" ""Not well I am truly sorry to hear it."
18087,"Let the cursed and hellish monster drink deep of agony; let him feel the despair that now torments me."""
18088,He saw that his electric flashlight was in working order.
18089,"Having obtained an oar at the water gate, we proceeded together to his residence, while he rapidly recovered his self possession, and spoke of our former slight acquaintance in terms of great apparent cordiality."
18090,"They do not wish the souls of their young men to leave the pleasant hearths and gambrel roofed taverns of old Kingsport, nor do they wish the laughter and song in that high rocky place to grow louder."
18091,He had taken somewhat after his unknown father.
18092,On this now leaped and twisted a more indescribable horde of human abnormality than any but a Sime or an Angarola could paint.
18093,We could not fear we did not.
18094,He related his history brief in happiness and woe and dwelt with passion on his and Elinor's mutual love.
18095,"Several of the Etonians had these characteristics; all were distinguished by a sense of honour, and spirit of enterprize; in some, as they verged towards manhood, this degenerated into presumption; but the younger ones, lads a little older than our own, were conspicuous for their gallant and sweet dispositions."
18096,"But the reverse is seen to be the case, and this reverse applies precisely to our supposition of a man in the interior."
18097,"What wonder then, that her feelings were wrought to this pitch I thus accounted to myself for her agitation; but this was not all, and the sequel revealed another excuse."
18098,"I pressed his shoulder to awaken his attention, but he did not alter his position."
18099,"No one had ever seen her closely, not even the servants; for her disposition had been violent and singular."
18100,"Proceeding southwardly, the explorer saw, at first, the same class of trees, but less and less lofty and Salvatorish in character; then he saw the gentler elm, succeeded by the sassafras and locust these again by the softer linden, red bud, catalpa, and maple these yet again by still more graceful and more modest varieties."
18101,"As soon as the health of Raymond was sufficiently re established, he prepared to join the Grecian camp, hear Kishan, a town of some importance, situated to the east of the Hebrus; in which Perdita and Clara were to remain until the event of the expected battle."
18102,I now looked at the nail.
18103,I could not see from my side of the hotel the southward route toward Arkham which I had determined to take.
18104,"I strove to rise, but my heavy lids closed, my limbs over wearied, claimed repose I rested my head on the stone, I yielded to the grateful sensation of utter forgetfulness; and in that scene of desolation, on that night of despair I slept."
18105,"The faculty of re solution is possibly much invigorated by mathematical study, and especially by that highest branch of it which, unjustly, and merely on account of its retrograde operations, has been called, as if par excellence, analysis."
18106,Manton was reflecting again.
18107,"Oh no I will become wise I will study my own heart and there discovering as I may the spring of the virtues I possess I will teach others how to look for them in their own souls I will find whence arrises this unquenshable love of beauty I possess that seems the ruling star of my life I will learn how I may direct it aright and by what loving I may become more like that beauty which I adore And when I have traced the steps of the godlike feeling which ennobles me makes me that which I esteem myself to be then I will teach others if I gain but one proselyte if I can teach but one other mind what is the beauty which they ought to love and what is the sympathy to which they ought to aspire what is the true end of their being which must be the true end of that of all men then shall I be satisfied think I have done enough Farewell doubts painful meditation of evil the great, ever inexplicable cause of all that we see I am content to be ignorant of all this happy that not resting my mind on any unstable theories I have come to the conclusion that of the great secret of the universe I can know nothing There is a veil before it my eyes are not piercing enough to see through it my arms not long enough to reach it to withdraw it I will study the end of my being oh thou universal love inspire me oh thou beauty which I see glowing around me lift me to a fit understanding of thee Such was the conclusion of my long wanderings I sought the end of my being I found it to be knowledge of itself Nor think this a confined study Not only did it lead me to search the mazes of the human soul but I found that there existed nought on earth which contained not a part of that universal beauty with which it was my aim object to become acquainted the motions of the stars of heaven the study of all that philosophers have unfolded of wondrous in nature became as it where sic the steps by which my soul rose to the full contemplation enjoyment of the beautiful Oh ye who have just escaped from the world ye know not what fountains of love will be opened in your hearts or what exquisite delight your minds will receive when the secrets of the world will be unfolded to you and ye shall become acquainted with the beauty of the universe Your souls now growing eager for the acquirement of knowledge will then rest in its possession disengaged from every particle of evil and knowing all things ye will as it were be mingled in the universe ye will become a part of that celestial beauty that you admire Diotima ceased and a profound silence ensued the youth with his cheeks flushed and his eyes burning with the fire communicated from hers still fixed them on her face which was lifted to heaven as in inspiration The lovely female bent hers to the ground after a deep sigh was the first to break the silence Oh divinest prophetess, said she how new to me how strange are your lessons If such be the end of our being how wayward a course did I pursue on earth Diotima you know not how torn affections misery incalculable misery withers up the soul."
18108,"Well, go on My wife, Mrs. Trotter, will give you the five dollars I left instructions with her to that effect."
18109,"From the tables we removed the tops."""
18110,"Yet one duty remained to me, the recollection of which finally triumphed over my selfish despair."
18111,"At length our tranquillity was disturbed, and the course of events, which for five years had flowed on in hushing tranquillity, was broken by breakers and obstacles, that woke us from our pleasant dream."
18112,"""Thus we see, at a glance, that what has been most triumphantly adduced in support of the idea that the articles had been 'for at least three or four weeks' in the thicket, is most absurdly null as regards any evidence of that fact."
18113,"Here was indeed a mystery which I felt it impossible to explain; but, even at that early moment, there seemed to glimmer, faintly, within the most remote and secret chambers of my intellect, a glow worm like conception of that truth which last night's adventure brought to so magnificent a demonstration."
18114,"When they proceeded Hoggishly, their ""facts"" were by no means always facts a matter of little consequence had it not been for assuming that they were facts and must be facts because they appeared to be such."
18115,At length Raymond suffered him to depart.
18116,"We got under way with a mere breath of wind, and for many days stood along the eastern coast of Java, without any other incident to beguile the monotony of our course than the occasional meeting with some of the small grabs of the Archipelago to which we were bound."
18117,I cannot see a well or a subway entrance without shuddering . . .
18118,"My privacy invaded, my actions censured, my friends insulted?"
18119,"""And how long, then, did the madmen reign?"" ""Oh, a very long time, indeed a month certainly how much longer I can't precisely say."
18120,"It was evident that, so far, death or what is usually termed death had been arrested by the mesmeric process."
18121,"Her power, which was linked to few of the enduring emotions of his heart, had greatly decayed."
18122,"The smile of triumph shone on his countenance; determined to pursue his object to the uttermost, his manner and expression seem ominous of the accomplishment of his wishes."
18123,"For many minutes of a dreamy and trembling abstraction, I busied myself in vain, unconnected conjecture."
18124,"George Bennett and William Tobey had left no trace, not even of a struggle."
18125,"At the end of the passable road they alighted, and for miles splashed on in silence through the terrible cypress woods where day never came."
18126,"In a word, why did he abandon four thousand francs in gold to encumber himself with a bundle of linen?"
18127,Shakspeare's Sonnets.
18128,"Such opinions need no comment, and I will make none."
18129,The fellow must be a relentless enemy of all mankind to take such glee in the torture of brain and flesh and the degradation of the mortal tenement.
18130,"The smoke of a battleship was on the northern horizon, but our distance and ability to submerge made us safe."
18131,"A single lightning bolt shot from the purple zenith to the altar stone, and a great tidal wave of viewless force and indescribable stench swept down from the hill to all the countryside."
18132,"Yet sorrow only slept to revive more fierce, but love never woke again its ghost, ever hovering over my father's grave, alone survived since his death all the world was to me a blank except where woe had stampt its burning words telling me to smile no more the living were not fit companions for me, and I was ever meditating by what means I might shake them all off, and never be heard of again."
18133,"All was now confusion and despair but an effort was made to lighten the ship by throwing overboard as much of her cargo as could be reached, and by cutting away the two masts that remained."
18134,And at this thought I paused.
18135,"His foreign birth, and he refused to throw off his allegiance to his native country, alone prevented him from filling the first offices in the state."
18136,Early in the morning the whole army was in motion.
18137,I have said that Ellison was remarkable in the continuous profusion of good gifts lavished upon him by Fortune.
18138,It was not until toward the close of the fourth year of our search that we found a locality with which Ellison professed himself satisfied.
18139,"Sheehan, now recovering from his astonishment, advanced and laid a heavy hand on the old waif's shoulder."
18140,"Elizabeth read my anguish in my countenance, and kindly taking my hand, said, ""My dearest friend, you must calm yourself."
18141,"If, for example, there should be a deposition of moisture upon the silk, and the machine begins to descend in consequence, there will be no necessity for discharging ballast to remedy the increase of weight, for it is remedied, or counteracted, in an exactly just proportion, by the deposit on the ground of just so much of the end of the rope as is necessary."
18142,Crossing the ocean in a balloon is not so difficult a feat after all.
18143,"How very wonderfully do we see verified every day, the profound observation of the Hindoo Aries Tottle as quoted by Pundit ""Thus must we say that, not once or twice, or a few times, but with almost infinite repetitions, the same opinions come round in a circle among men."""
18144,In vain I struggled to perfect to regain it.
18145,"Be it so; drag me away I return; confine me, imprison me, still I escape, and come here."
18146,"""Yes, there's a hotel in Innsmouth called the Gilman House but I don't believe it can amount to much."
18147,"An' she says he says they was a swishin', lappin' saound, more nor what the bendin' trees an' bushes could make, an' all on a suddent the trees along the rud begun ter git pushed one side, an' they was a awful stompin' an' splashin' in the mud."
18148,"Indeed, there is no other way of accounting for the variation in question."
18149,"I jumped up to examine the clock, and found that it had ceased running."
18150,They get a lot of fish and lobsters and do exporting by truck.
18151,"I did not sleep well that night, and wondered exactly when the end would come."
18152,We must endeavor to satisfy ourselves by personal inquiry.
18153,"The ring is clamorously identified, the reward is paid, and the finder nearly thrust out of doors."
18154,It was Rodriguez the Portuguese who climbed up the foot of the monolith and shouted of what he had found.
18155,"The soldiers answered his cheerful words with aghast and awe struck looks; instinctively they drew back, and Raymond rode in the front of the lines: ""By my sword I swear,"" he cried, ""that no ambush or stratagem endangers you."
18156,He had evidently sought refuge on the very ship which had been forced to destroy his own one more victim of the unjust war of aggression which the English pig dogs are waging upon the Fatherland.
18157,"We remained here a week, were not ill treated by the wreckers, and at length obtained a passage to New York."
18158,"Once a gap in the trees opened up to the right, so that he saw off across leagues of twilight meadow and spied the old Congregational steeple on Central Hill in Kingsport; pink with the last flush of day, the panes of the little round windows blazing with reflected fire."
18159,"""William Bird, tailor deposes that he was one of the party who entered the house."
18160,"Vidocq, for example, was a good guesser and a persevering man."
18161,"Moreover, they had stopped him from consulting the dubious old books on forbidden secrets that were kept under lock and key in a vault at the university library."
18162,"Found a startling diminution in the apparent diameter of the earth, and a considerable increase, now observable for the first time, in that of the moon itself, which wanted only a few days of being full."
18163,"Nex' day Obed an' thutty two others was in gaol, with everbody a wonderin' jest what was afoot an' jest what charge agin' 'em cud be got to holt."
18164,"As he remounted the splitting coffins he felt his weight very poignantly; especially when, upon reaching the topmost one, he heard that aggravated crackle which bespeaks the wholesale rending of wood."
18165,"I know not how to express or communicate the sense of concentrated, intense, though evanescent transport, that imparadized us in the present hour."
18166,"I often desired his entire absence; for I found that I was grown out of the ways of life and that by long seclusion, although I could support my accustomed grief, and drink the bitter daily draught with some degree of patience, yet I had become unfit for the slightest novelty of feeling."
18167,We at once saw the impossibility of removing so great a weight.
18168,I passed a night of unmingled wretchedness.
18169,"The pretty Miss Mansfield has already received the congratulatory visits on her approaching marriage with a young Englishman, John Melbourne, Esq."
18170,"""This is kind,"" she cried; ""this is noble, my own beloved O fear not disgrace or lowly fortune, while you have your Perdita; fear not sorrow, while our child lives and smiles."
18171,"Each word was drawn out with difficulty; real anguish painted his features; his eyes were now lifted in sudden horror, now fixed in dread upon the ground."
18172,"The heavy folds reached fully to the abutting roof, and I saw that the rings and catch would be likely to bear my weight."
18173,"With the mouth and chin of a deity singular, wild, full, liquid eyes, whose shadows varied from pure hazel to intense and brilliant jet and a profusion of curling, black hair, from which a forehead of unusual breadth gleamed forth at intervals all light and ivory his were features than which I have seen none more classically regular, except, perhaps, the marble ones of the Emperor Commodus."
18174,"I shall satiate my ardent curiosity with the sight of a part of the world never before visited, and may tread a land never before imprinted by the foot of man."
18175,"Among angels, my Oinos, it is seen to be simply true."
18176,"Such an one was near, hovering round this house."
18177,"The ancient house has always been there, and people say One dwells therein who talks with the morning mists that come up from the deep, and perhaps sees singular things oceanward at those times when the cliff's rim becomes the rim of all earth, and solemn buoys toll free in the white aether of faery."
18178,"""Adrian, I am about to return to Greece, to become again a soldier, perhaps a conqueror."
18179,At this juncture enters the Minister D .
18180,"Were it later for example, were it the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and forty five, we should be deprived of this extraordinary spectacle."
18181,He was soon borne away by the waves and lost in darkness and distance.
18182,"From the time that he had quitted London, on the fatal night of his defeat at the gaming table, the king had received no tidings concerning him; and when, after the lapse of years, he exerted himself to discover him, every trace was lost."
18183,"West of this door was a single window, looking toward the brook."
18184,"How miraculous did this appear The huts, the neater cottages, and stately houses engaged my admiration by turns."
18185,"Its details I shall never know; for my slumber, though troubled and dream infested, was continuous."
18186,"He was, like Boethius and nearly all the eminent men of his age, of the great Anician family, and traced his genealogy with much exactitude and self satisfaction to all the heroes of the republic."
18187,No more ice the man looked and ran away.
18188,The inhabitants of that street impressed me peculiarly.
18189,"He spoke in a dreamy, stilted manner which suggested pose and alienated sympathy; and my uncle shewed some sharpness in replying, for the conspicuous freshness of the tablet implied kinship with anything but archaeology."
18190,His eyes flashed with a fierce light.
18191,"Deep sorrow must have been the inmate of our bosoms; fraud must have lain in wait for us; the artful must have deceived us; sickening doubt and false hope must have chequered our days; hilarity and joy, that lap the soul in ecstasy, must at times have possessed us."
18192,It had ended horribly in a delirium of fear which we gradually came to attribute to our own overwrought nerves and West had never afterward been able to shake off a maddening sensation of being haunted and hunted.
18193,"Don't ask me, either, what lay behind that mole like scrambling Pickman was so keen to pass off as rats."
18194,"It must have been merely the association of any odd circumstance with the sinister nature of our location and mission, for surely the circumstance was not in itself frightful or unnatural."
18195,"I thought you knew me better."""
18196,"He took me into his confidence, gave me a permanent situation as Thomas Hawk of the ""Lollipop,"" and, as for the present, he could afford me no salary, allowed me to profit, at discretion, by his advice."
18197,See the whole town is topsy turvy.
18198,"Over the countryside and amidst the splendour of cities rove at will the happy folk, of whom all are gifted with unmarred grace and unalloyed happiness."
18199,"On the night of September , , I heard a knock at my chamber door."
18200,"The fire of madness died from his eyes, and in dull wonder he looked at his questioners and asked why he was bound."
18201,"""Yield up enough sacrifices an' savage knick knacks an' harbourage in the taown when they wanted it, an' they'd let well enough alone."
18202,"The main compartment itself in speaking of that portion of the box visible upon opening doors and , we shall always call it the main compartment is lined with dark cloth and contains no machinery whatever beyond two pieces of steel, quadrant shaped, and situated one in each of the rear top corners of the compartment."
18203,"And since spirit, in order to cause all the manifestations attributed to it, cannot be limited by any of the laws of matter; why is it extravagant to imagine psychically living dead things in shapes or absences of shapes which must for human spectators be utterly and appallingly ""unnamable""?"
18204,"There was neither submission, patience, nor self abandonment in her grief; she fought with it, struggled beneath it, and rendered every pang more sharp by resistance."
18205,"My tale had been called ""The Attic Window"", and appeared in the January, , issue of Whispers."
18206,"A flash of lightning illuminated the object, and discovered its shape plainly to me; its gigantic stature, and the deformity of its aspect more hideous than belongs to humanity, instantly informed me that it was the wretch, the filthy daemon, to whom I had given life."
18207,"""I dispute the availability, and thus the value, of that reason which is cultivated in any especial form other than the abstractly logical."
18208,"Even the sailors feel the power of his eloquence; when he speaks, they no longer despair; he rouses their energies, and while they hear his voice they believe these vast mountains of ice are mole hills which will vanish before the resolutions of man."
18209,"The theatres were kept open; every place of public resort was frequented; though he endeavoured so to modify them, as might best quiet the agitation of the spectators, and at the same time prevent a reaction of misery when the excitement was over."
18210,"There were even bold souls who proposed an offensive expedition down in the glen, though they did not venture to set an actual example to the still reluctant majority."
18211,In the quivering of a leaf in the hue of a blade of grass in the shape of a trefoil in the humming of a bee in the gleaming of a dew drop in the breathing of the wind in the faint odors that came from the forest there came a whole universe of suggestion a gay and motley train of rhapsodical and immethodical thought.
18212,The great clock of the Piazza had sounded the fifth hour of the Italian evening.
18213,"Of this party I was one, and did all I could to prevent the rash and fatal sally of the officer who fell, in the crowded alleys, by the poisoned arrow of a Bengalee."
18214,"I avoided him during the rest of the passage, by advice of the captain, who seemed to coincide with me altogether in my views of his insanity, but cautioned me to say nothing on this head to any person on board."
18215,"The great house was very still, for I had not gone up till after midnight."
18216,"I do not recall distinctly when it began, but it was months ago."
18217,"And travellers now within that valley, Through the red litten windows, see Vast forms that move fantastically To a discordant melody; While, like a rapid ghastly river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh but smile no more."
18218,"Love, and her child, Hope, which can bestow wealth on poverty, strength on the weak, and happiness on the sorrowing."
18219,"In each of the angles of the chamber stood on end a gigantic sarcophagus of black granite, from the tombs of the kings over against Luxor, with their aged lids full of immemorial sculpture."
18220,"He came each day to her abode of penury, and his presence transformed it to a temple redolent with sweets, radiant with heaven's own light; he partook of her delirium."
18221,By slow degrees however we were drawn to the real interest of the scene.
18222,"We are told that on one occasion, while a Madame B was at Madame Rogêt's house, M. Beauvais, who was going out, told her that a gendarme was expected there, and she, Madame B., must not say anything to the gendarme until he returned, but let the matter be for him...."
18223,"In the dank twilight I climbed the worn and aged stone stairs till I reached the level where they ceased, and thereafter clung perilously to small footholds leading upward."
18224,Can you not fancy the shout of scorn with which my words would be received by our progenitors were it possible for them to be now looking over my shoulder?
18225,"One of the phantasmagoric conceptions of my friend, partaking not so rigidly of the spirit of abstraction, may be shadowed forth, although feebly, in words."
18226,"We had drawn the God Eros from that wave, and now we felt that he had enkindled within us the fiery souls of our forefathers."
18227,"""As the sun became warmer and the light of day longer, the snow vanished, and I beheld the bare trees and the black earth."
18228,But these were not the Great Old Ones.
18229,"The greatest care had been taken to preserve a due medium between the neat and graceful on the one hand, and the pittoresque, in the true sense of the Italian term, on the other."
18230,"Now that very stone formed the centre of a vast space thrashed around by the mountainous horror, whilst upon its slightly concave surface was a thick and foetid deposit of the same tarry stickiness observed on the floor of the ruined Whateley farmhouse when the horror escaped."
18231,"Then he went back to Arkham, the terrible witch haunted old town of his forefathers in New England, and had experiences in the dark, amidst the hoary willows and tottering gambrel roofs, which made him seal forever certain pages in the diary of a wild minded ancestor."
18232,"""One day, having given my creditors the slip, and feeling more than usually dejected, I continued for a long time to wander about the most obscure streets without object whatever, until at length I chanced to stumble against the corner of a bookseller's stall."
18233,"But in the ultimate, unorganized life, the external world reaches the whole body, which is of a substance having affinity to brain, as I have said, with no other intervention than that of an infinitely rarer ether than even the luminiferous; and to this ether in unison with it the whole body vibrates, setting in motion the unparticled matter which permeates it."
18234,Three of these were filled with statues of gigantic proportions.
18235,"But supposing all these conjectures to be false, you cannot contest the inestimable benefit which I shall confer on all mankind, to the last generation, by discovering a passage near the pole to those countries, to reach which at present so many months are requisite; or by ascertaining the secret of the magnet, which, if at all possible, can only be effected by an undertaking such as mine."
18236,"Physicians found no adequate cause for the end, and laid it to heart trouble and a weakened constitution."
18237,"On the left the floor fell abruptly away, leaving a black triangular gulf out of which, after a second's dry rattling, there presently climbed the hateful little furry thing with the yellow fangs and bearded human face."
18238,And I have now mentioned all the provinces in which the common understanding of the poetic sentiment has declared it capable of expatiating.
18239,"But I did place upon his head and mine the two ends of my cosmic ""radio""; hoping against hope for a first and last message from the dream world in the brief time remaining."
18240,"The picture is blurred, but ineradicable."
18241,"There were two round, black spots near one extremity of the back, and a long one near the other."
18242,"The gentlemen said little about her; but the ladies, in a little while, pronounced her ""a good hearted thing, rather indifferent looking, totally uneducated, and decidedly vulgar."""
18243,"Besides, he was almost sure that nothing can be really ""unnamable""."
18244,"When reason returned, she would remonstrate and endeavour to inspire me with resignation."
18245,"Then, long after both he and Gilman had retired, the atrocious shrieking began."
18246,"It was the pregnancy of solemn admonition in the singular, low, hissing utterance; and, above all, it was the character, the tone, the key, of those few, simple, and familiar, yet whispered syllables, which came with a thousand thronging memories of bygone days, and struck upon my soul with the shock of a galvanic battery."
18247,"The balloon rose about half a mile from the earth, and with a favourable wind it hurried through the air, its feathered vans cleaving the unopposing atmosphere."
18248,"At every instant the vessel seemed imprisoned within an enchanted circle, having insuperable and impenetrable walls of foliage, a roof of ultramarine satin, and no floor the keel balancing itself with admirable nicety on that of a phantom bark which, by some accident having been turned upside down, floated in constant company with the substantial one, for the purpose of sustaining it."
18249,"Things went on that way fer years, an' Obed got enough o' that gold like stuff to make him start the refinery in Waite's old run daown fullin' mill."
18250,"The old man appeared enraptured and said some words which Agatha endeavoured to explain to Safie, and by which he appeared to wish to express that she bestowed on him the greatest delight by her music."
18251,"In fact, he had made up his mind for a voyage to the South Seas, when a night's reflection induced him to abandon the idea."
18252,"So day by day I become weaker, and life flickers in my wasting form, as a lamp about to loose it vivifying oil."
18253,"The order I had received, was to make an observation of the direction which a detachment of the enemy might have taken, from a northern tumulus; the whole Turkish army, followed by the Greek, had poured eastward; none but the dead remained in the direction of my side."
18254,"Round the skirts of the valley which is quite level, and paved throughout with flat tiles, extends a continuous row of sixty little houses."
18255,Some made it as short as three minutes some as long as five.
18256,"My father suggested that I should send it to the ""Gad Fly"" but there were two reasons which operated to prevent me from so doing."
18257,"He made few remarks, till, on observing through his glass the sequel of an order he had given, his face, clouded for awhile with doubt, became radiant."
18258,"""Very well, and very happy, only a little uneasy that they hear from you so seldom."
18259,"Now, my state room opened into the main cabin, or dining room, as did those of all the single men on board."
18260,"It is not, however, with L'Etoile that we have to do, but with the truth."
18261,"When I am addressed, her name is the sound I expect: in every communication, I imagine that she will form a part."
18262,Was it not Socrates who said that the statuary found his statue in the block of marble?
18263,"Against the moon vast clouds of feathery watchers rose and raced from sight, frantic at that which they had sought for prey."
18264,"It is indeed a tale so strange that I should fear you would not credit it were there not something in truth which, however wonderful, forces conviction."
18265,"""When she had finished, she gave the guitar to Agatha, who at first declined it."
18266,"There was no Adrian to superintend and direct, while whole flocks of the poor were struck and killed."
18267,"You can't imagine, even from what you have read and from what I've told you, the things I shall have to see and do."
18268,"Yes, he was stone, stone dead."
18269,"Without his hat he took on an aspect of extreme age which was scarcely visible before, and I wondered if this unperceived mark of singular longevity were not one of the sources of my original disquiet."
18270,"""This trait of kindness moved me sensibly."
18271,"Deprived of this respite, I should have sunk under my hardships."
18272,"It is, indeed evident, that with less of the instinctive philosophy which, now and then, stands so well in the stead of experience, Mr. Ellison would have found himself precipitated, by the very extraordinary successes of his life, into the common vortex of Unhappiness which yawns for those of preeminent endowments."
18273,"But my pleasures arose from the contemplation of nature alone, I had no companion: my warm affections finding no return from any other human heart were forced to run waste on inanimate objects."
18274,"Hey? Heh, heh, heh, heh. . . ."
18275,"""Dearest niece,"" said my father, ""dry your tears."
18276,"I did this at some little risk, and before closing the mouth of the chamber, by reaching under the car with one of the poles before mentioned to which a hook had been attached."
18277,"I was scarcely hid when a young girl came running towards the spot where I was concealed, laughing, as if she ran from someone in sport."
18278,"When dawn came Iranon looked about with dismay, for the domes of Oonai were not golden in the sun, but grey and dismal."
18279,"He was short of breath to say all in a word, he was short of breath."
18280,"The agony of suspense grew at length intolerable, and I cautiously moved forward, with my arms extended, and my eyes straining from their sockets, in the hope of catching some faint ray of light."
18281,"hull thing sort o' shaped like a hen's egg bigger'n anything, with dozens o' legs like hogsheads that haff shut up when they step . . ."
18282,The crowning horror came that very night.
18283,I saw how the fine form of man was degraded and wasted; I beheld the corruption of death succeed to the blooming cheek of life; I saw how the worm inherited the wonders of the eye and brain.
18284,"Within were three or four large stones, forming a kind of seat with a back and footstool."
18285,He had crossed the river with her in an open ferry boat.
18286,"The southeastward pull still held, and only with tremendous resolution could Gilman drag himself into the old house and up the rickety stairs."
18287,"No more could his galleys sail up the river Oukranos past the gilded spires of Thran, or his elephant caravans tramp through perfumed jungles in Kled, where forgotten palaces with veined ivory columns sleep lovely and unbroken under the moon."
18288,"Now, I suppose, you can find the left eye of the skull, or the place where the left eye has been."
18289,"I have, as you are aware, been much in India."
18290,"At length, having spoken one day, in tears, of the last sad change which must befall Humanity, she thenceforward dwelt only upon this one sorrowful theme, interweaving it into all our converse, as, in the songs of the bard of Schiraz, the same images are found occurring, again and again, in every impressive variation of phrase."
18291,"""Now, Jup,"" cried Legrand, evidently much excited, ""I want you to work your way out upon that limb as far as you can."
18292,"Yet, as he thus determined, fancy conjured up the miserable abode of the Greek girl."
18293,"Our own vessel was at length ceasing from her struggles, and sinking with her head to the sea."
18294,"My first endeavor was to divide the sentence into the natural division intended by the cryptographist."""
18295,What had been the study and desire of the wisest men since the creation of the world was now within my grasp.
18296,Was sure that the shrill voice was not that of either of the deceased.
18297,"""At first I was too much confused to observe anything accurately."
18298,"Behold me then safely ensconced in my private boudoir, a fearful instance of the ill consequences attending upon irascibility alive, with the qualifications of the dead dead, with the propensities of the living an anomaly on the face of the earth being very calm, yet breathless."
18299,I always attributed my failure at these points to the disordered state of his health.
18300,But it is mere idleness to say that I had not lived before that the soul has no previous existence.
18301,"Of course, then, it is the interest of the proprietor to represent it as a pure machine."
18302,"""But was this species of acquiescence all?"" ""By no means."
18303,"Its designs, however, were far from modern in atmosphere and suggestion; for although the vagaries of cubism and futurism are many and wild, they do not often reproduce that cryptic regularity which lurks in prehistoric writing."
18304,Of her family I have surely heard her speak.
18305,An acetylene gas outfit gave the light necessary for work.
18306,No care no hope no effort.
18307,"He was somewhat surprised; he would see, he said, what could be done; but it required time; and Raymond had ordered me to return by noon."
18308,"I wept as I listened to him; and after we had taken an affectionate farewell, I followed him far with my eyes until they saw the last of my earthly comforter."
18309,"About eight o'clock at night, having become seriously alarmed at his protracted absence, we were about setting out in search of him, when he unexpectedly made his appearance, in health no worse than usual, and in rather more than ordinary spirits."
18310,Were he not Alexander he would be Diogenes.
18311,"""You looked among D 's papers, of course, and into the books of the library?"" ""Certainly; we opened every package and parcel; we not only opened every book, but we turned over every leaf in each volume, not contenting ourselves with a mere shake, according to the fashion of some of our police officers."
18312,"He wished to give his invention a trial, I suppose, and so he persuaded the rest of the patients to join him in a conspiracy for the overthrow of the reigning powers."""
18313,"""The words induced me to turn towards myself."
18314,"With these I spent most of my time, and never was so happy as when feeding and caressing them."
18315,"My thoughts were sad and solemn, yet not of unmingled pain."
18316,"Let us live for each other and for happiness; let us seek peace in our dear home, near the inland murmur of streams, and the gracious waving of trees, the beauteous vesture of earth, and sublime pageantry of the skies."
18317,"No, we will have a Protector of our own."
18318,"The crew, many of whom had never seen the sea before, felt indeed as if heaven and earth came ruining together, as the vessel dipped her bows in the waves, or rose high upon them."
18319,"Desrochers, the fellow under Gilman's room, had spoken of nocturnal footsteps both shod and unshod, and of the violet light he saw one night when he had stolen fearfully up to peer through Gilman's keyhole."
18320,"This intelligence brought us back from the prospect of paradise, held out after the lapse of an hundred thousand years, to the pain and misery at present existent upon earth."
18321,"But within me is a pledge of that affection ah, how little which thou didst feel for me, Morella."
18322,"The fashions of the world, its exigencies, educations and pursuits, are winds to drive our wills, like clouds all one way; but let a thunderstorm arise in the shape of love, hate, or ambition, and the rack goes backward, stemming the opposing air in triumph."""
18323,We returned together to the palace.
18324,"I have no right to play with his feelings, to accept his proffered love, and then sting him with neglect."""
18325,In that coffin and in that vault they have promised me I shall be buried.
18326,"I doubted the care, the fidelity of my dearest friends."
18327,"He was first struck by the space of time that had elapsed, since madness, rather than any reasonable impulse, had regulated his actions."
18328,"The younger part gathered round me to ask my advice; and those who had friends in London were anxious beyond the rest, to ascertain the present extent of disease in the metropolis."
18329,"If hemmed, the matter is nearly out of the question."
18330,"For such follies, even in childhood, I had imbibed a taste and now they came back to me as if in the dotage of grief."
18331,"This done, let us compare these communications, both as regards style and MS., with those sent to the morning paper, at a previous period, and insisting so vehemently upon the guilt of Mennais."
18332,Yet he did not remove it.
18333,"It was alive now, and early villagers courtesied as the horsemen clattered down the street and turned off into the lane that ends in the abyss of dream."
18334,"The little river which turned sharply in its course, and was thus immediately lost to sight, seemed to have no exit from its prison, but to be absorbed by the deep green foliage of the trees to the east while in the opposite quarter so it appeared to me as I lay at length and glanced upward there poured down noiselessly and continuously into the valley, a rich golden and crimson waterfall from the sunset fountains of the sky."
18335,The sailor's face flushed up as if he were struggling with suffocation.
18336,There was a night when winds from unknown spaces whirled us irresistibly into limitless vacua beyond all thought and entity.
18337,"The uprising of the star of day was hailed by triumphant strains, while the birds, heard by snatches, filled up the intervals of the music."
18338,"This thing, for very obvious reasons, I found it quite impossible to do."
18339,"It would be needless to narrate those disastrous occurrences, for which a parallel might be found in any slighter visitation of our gigantic calamity."
18340,Now and then we could see the lightning through the cracks in the wall; the afternoon was so incredibly dark that each flash was extremely vivid.
18341,"I foresee that the plan which you mark out in your letter will not endure long; but you are mistress of yourself, and it is my sincere wish to contribute as far as you will permit me to your happiness."""
18342,"In the sense I intend, it is, in fact, a mobile without motive, a motive not motivirt."
18343,"We will only suggest that, although the top of the box is apparently a board of about three inches in thickness, the spectator may satisfy himself by stooping and looking up at it when the main compartment is open, that it is in reality very thin."
18344,"As I opened the window I noticed that it was flanked by heavy velour draperies suspended from a pole by brass rings, and also that there was a large projecting catch for the shutters on the exterior."
18345,Upon one thing I was absolutely resolved.
18346,"""The 'Gazette,'"" he replied, ""has not entered, I fear, into the unusual horror of the thing."
18347,"At length they began to interfere with the inhabitants, and strong in their concentrated numbers, ejected the natives from their dwellings, and robbed them of their winter store."
18348,It was now evident that its nucleus would first reach us.
18349,"He sprang from the cabin window as he said this, upon the ice raft which lay close to the vessel."
18350,"The moon's light flickers, as earth's gods dance against it; I shall see the dancing forms of the gods that leap and howl in the moonlight. . . ."
18351,"Am very willing to pay a reward for the finding of the animal that is to say, any thing in reason."""
18352,"Hitherto she had steadily borne up against the pressure of her malady, and had not betaken herself finally to bed; but, on the closing in of the evening of my arrival at the house, she succumbed as her brother told me at night with inexpressible agitation to the prostrating power of the destroyer; and I learned that the glimpse I had obtained of her person would thus probably be the last I should obtain that the lady, at least while living, would be seen by me no more."
18353,"Isolated among strange influences, Lavinia was fond of wild and grandiose day dreams and singular occupations; nor was her leisure much taken up by household cares in a home from which all standards of order and cleanliness had long since disappeared."
18354,"Yes, that paper was the reason I dropped Pickman; Richard Upton Pickman, the greatest artist I have ever known and the foulest being that ever leaped the bounds of life into the pits of myth and madness."
18355,The poor little thing's fever encreased towards night.
18356,"""And now a new object took possession of my soul."
18357,What he wanted were bodies from which vitality had only just departed; bodies with every cell intact and capable of receiving again the impulse toward that mode of motion called life.
18358,I have lost my hopes of utility and glory; I have lost my friend.
18359,"While musing upon the singularity of my fate, I unwittingly daubed with a tar brush the edges of a neatly folded studding sail which lay near me on a barrel."
18360,"I wish you all health, and a little more courtesy."
18361,"A moment later I felt less sure that the deeper sounds were voices, since the apparent hoarse barkings and loose syllabled croakings bore so little resemblance to recognised human speech."
18362,Any risk would have been preferred to a return to that accursed shore.
18363,"It is the usual Sunday resort of blackguards from the city, who cross the river in boats."
18364,"Dxn't crxw, anxther time, befxre yxu're xut xf the wxxds Dxes yxur mxther knxw yxu're xut?"
18365,"All attempts at analyzing the unknown substance have, so far, failed, but that it will ultimately be analyzed, is not to be doubted."
18366,"Diana, my poodle sweetest of creatures She had a quantity of hair over her one eye, and a blue ribband tied fashionably around her neck."
18367,"How the devil sir, did you get into this place?"
18368,It had been her care which provided me a companion in Clerval and yet a man is blind to a thousand minute circumstances which call forth a woman's sedulous attention.
18369,"Merciful gods of earth, I am falling into the sky"" And as Atal shut his eyes and stopped his ears and tried to jump downward against the frightful pull from unknown heights, there resounded on Hatheg Kla that terrible peal of thunder which awaked the good cotters of the plains and the honest burgesses of Hatheg and Nir and Ulthar, and caused them to behold through the clouds that strange eclipse of the moon that no book ever predicted."
18370,"I was, therefore, quite anxious to make her acquaintance."
18371,"All the townsfolk were frightened, and had begged the presence of a cohort from Calagurris."
18372,"At first I made an endeavor to re compose the patient; but, failing in this through total abeyance of the will, I retraced my steps and as earnestly struggled to awaken him."
18373,"A strange headline item had struck at him from the crumpled pages, and a nameless titan claw had seemed to reach down through sixteen years."
18374,"At first I took it for a rumbling in my ears such as a man sometimes experiences when getting very drunk but, upon second thought, I considered the sound as more nearly resembling that which proceeds from an empty barrel beaten with a big stick; and, in fact, this I should have concluded it to be, but for the articulation of the syllables and words."
18375,Chapter When I had attained the age of seventeen my parents resolved that I should become a student at the university of Ingolstadt.
18376,But the Duc's heart is fainting within him.
18377,"When we quitted Macedonia, the fertile but low plains of Thrace afforded fewer beauties; yet our journey continued to be interesting."
18378,"One step One little, little step Upon one such little step in the great staircase of human life how vast a sum of human happiness or misery depends I thought of myself, then of Pompey, and then of the mysterious and inexplicable destiny which surrounded us."
18379,All that I possessed of the luxuries of life came from him.
18380,"I must, I saw, trust to such makeshift barriers to shield me till I could get out the window and on the roof of the Paine Street block."
18381,"As I had never visited a place of the kind, I thought the opportunity too good to be lost; and so proposed to my travelling companion a gentleman with whom I had made casual acquaintance a few days before that we should turn aside, for an hour or so, and look through the establishment."
18382,"He looked in every corner for brownish drops or stains, but did not find any."
18383,"The person of whom I speak, seemed born for the purpose of foreshadowing the wild doctrines of Turgot, Price, Priestley, and Condorcet of exemplifying, by individual instance, what has been deemed the mere chimera of the perfectionists."
18384,"""Proceed,"" said I. ""Or not,"" said Dupin."
18385,And finally he had spoken of the living things in such a manner that he was taken to the madhouse.
18386,"I heard of the division of property, of immense wealth and squalid poverty, of rank, descent, and noble blood."
18387,"I paused, examining and analysing all the minutiae of causation, as exemplified in the change from life to death, and death to life, until from the midst of this darkness a sudden light broke in upon me a light so brilliant and wondrous, yet so simple, that while I became dizzy with the immensity of the prospect which it illustrated, I was surprised that among so many men of genius who had directed their inquiries towards the same science, that I alone should be reserved to discover so astonishing a secret."
18388,"It was one thing to chase the nameless entity, but quite another to find it."
18389,"I tried to conceal this as much as possible, that I might not debar him from the pleasures natural to one who was entering on a new scene of life, undisturbed by any care or bitter recollection."
18390,I expressed these feelings in my answer.
18391,"Among them the Greek army was encamped, and their squadrons moved to and fro now in regular march, now in swift career."
18392,Nothing is so painful to the human mind as a great and sudden change.
18393,"Gilman believed strange things about Keziah, and had felt a queer thrill on learning that her dwelling was still standing after more than years."
18394,It is merely the idea of what would be our sensations during the sweeping precipitancy of a fall from such a height.
18395,"""Indeed I have always understood that the majority of lunatics were of the gentler sex."" ""It is generally so, but not always."
18396,"When he again spoke, his voice had resumed all that rich melody and strength which I had noticed upon our original introduction."
18397,"He seemed to know what was coming the monstrous burst of Walpurgis rhythm in whose cosmic timbre would be concentrated all the primal, ultimate space time seethings which lie behind the massed spheres of matter and sometimes break forth in measured reverberations that penetrate faintly to every layer of entity and give hideous significance throughout the worlds to certain dreaded periods."
18398,This also was refused.
18399,"It was a vague, insistent impulse to fly away from his present situation, but held not a hint of the specific direction in which he wished to fly."
18400,"In this respect I did not differ from him materially: I was skilful in the Italian vintages myself, and bought largely whenever I could."
18401,"Fortunately, there is but one mode of reasoning upon the point, and that mode must lead us to a definite decision."
18402,"There was much lore too in the sayings which were said by the Sybils; and holy, holy things were heard of old by the dim leaves that trembled around Dodona but, as Allah liveth, that fable which the Demon told me as he sat by my side in the shadow of the tomb, I hold to be the most wonderful of all And as the Demon made an end of his story, he fell back within the cavity of the tomb and laughed."
18403,"The father of their charge was one of those Italians nursed in the memory of the antique glory of Italy one among the schiavi ognor frementi, who exerted himself to obtain the liberty of his country."
18404,"Of how the organic entities moved, he could tell no more than of how he moved himself."
18405,"Watching my opportunity, when I thought the audience were fully engaged with the opera, I at length caught the eyes of Madame Lalande, and, upon the instant, made a slight but unmistakable bow."
18406,"He remained to combat the fiend his side unguarded, his toils unshared infection might even reach him, and he die unattended and alone."
18407,"In the morning, on her return, my servant found me almost lifeless, while possessed by a high fever I was lying on the floor of my room."
18408,"Under other circumstances than those which invested him, it is not impossible that he would have become a painter."
18409,"As before, some minutes elapsed ere a reply was made; and during the interval the dying man seemed to be collecting his energies to speak."
18410,"The favoured countries of the south will throw off the iron yoke of servitude; poverty will quit us, and with that, sickness."
18411,"His brow was white as the marble of Pentelicus, and of a height and breadth almost godlike."
18412,them as had reel hands. . . .
18413,"You are, beyond doubt, uninformed of the true character of the person who has to night won at ecarte a large sum of money from Lord Glendinning."
18414,"Then the old man made a signal to the half seen flute player in the darkness, which player thereupon changed its feeble drone to a scarce louder drone in another key; precipitating as it did so a horror unthinkable and unexpected."
18415,"We kept the poor devils as busy as we could, tinkering at the machinery even when we knew it was useless."
18416,"""While I was overcome by these feelings, I left the spot where I had committed the murder, and seeking a more secluded hiding place, I entered a barn which had appeared to me to be empty."
18417,"First I must seek Adrian, and restore him to her."
18418,"These, for a time, were unsuccessful."
18419,"One of my first acts for the recovery even of my own composure, was to bid farewell to the sea."
18420,"Women whose delicate feet had seldom touched the earth in their luxury, had fled in fright and horror from their homes, till, losing themselves in the squalid streets of the metropolis, they had died on the threshold of poverty."
18421,"Arose in good health and spirits, and was astonished at the singular change which had taken place in the appearance of the sea."
18422,Raymond strode angrily up and down the room.
18423,"Even Central Hill was a dwarf from this height, and he could just make out the ancient graveyard by the Congregational Hospital, beneath which rumour said some terrible caves or burrows lurked."
18424,"That place was very old, and the ceiling high shelves full of rotting volumes reached back endlessly through windowless inner rooms and alcoves."
18425,"""Ketched in the rain, be ye?"" he greeted."
18426,"In the narrow limits of that bower, it would have been scarcely possible that the petticoat and scarf should have retained a position upon the stones, when subjected to the brushing to and fro of many struggling persons."
18427,Nothing could be more rigorously simple than the furniture of the parlor.
18428,"Assist me, Spirit of Apicius A golden cage bore the little winged wanderer, enamored, melting, indolent, to the Chaussée D'Antin, from its home in far Peru."
18429,"My acquaintance with him was casual altogether; and I am scarcely warranted in saying that I know him at all; but to have seen and conversed with a man of so prodigious a notoriety as he has attained, or will attain in a few days, is not a small matter, as times go."
18430,"After the clock had struck three the moon shone in my eyes, but I turned over without rising to pull down the shade."
18431,"It likewise happens frequently, that whales come too near the stream, and are overpowered by its violence; and then it is impossible to describe their howlings and bellowings in their fruitless struggles to disengage themselves."
18432,"A quick step was now heard upon the staircase, and a loud knock at the door rapidly succeeded."
18433,When Randolph Carter was thirty he lost the key of the gate of dreams.
18434,"My first idea, now, was mere surprise at the really remarkable similarity of outline at the singular coincidence involved in the fact, that unknown to me, there should have been a skull upon the other side of the parchment, immediately beneath my figure of the scarabæus, and that this skull, not only in outline, but in size, should so closely resemble my drawing."
18435,This speech troubled me.
18436,"Unfortunately no carvings could be found, and the small size of the expedition prevented operations toward clearing the one visible passageway that seemed to lead down into the system of vaults which Sir Wade had mentioned."
18437,"So, at least I thought: but I had not counted upon the extent of the dungeon, or upon my own weakness."
18438,"And what damnable expressiveness Pickman sometimes gave the sightless faces of this charnel booty Occasionally the things were shewn leaping through open windows at night, or squatting on the chests of sleepers, worrying at their throats."
18439,For want of a better word we might term it spirit.
18440,There is scarcely an insane asylum in France which cannot supply a human tea pot.
18441,"Into the granite city of Teloth wandered the youth, vine crowned, his yellow hair glistening with myrrh and his purple robe torn with briers of the mountain Sidrak that lies across the antique bridge of stone."
18442,"My friends, for Verney, I feel that you are my friend, do not endeavour to shake my resolve."
18443,"Never, Idris related, did the angry lady deign to recur to gentleness and persuasion; if she had, the task of resistance would have been exquisitely painful."
18444,"three, four quite right Say to Mrs. Trotter that you met me, and be sure now and do not loiter on the way."""
18445,We shall make our bed of dried leaves; the sun will shine on us as on man and will ripen our food.
18446,Warren would never tell me just what was in that book.
18447,"Often at sunset, I have walked with her, in the sober, enshadowed forest paths, and listened with joyful sympathy."
18448,"The ceiling, of gloomy looking oak, was excessively lofty, vaulted, and elaborately fretted with the wildest and most grotesque specimens of a semi Gothic, semi Druidical device."
18449,"Her understanding was clear and comprehensive, her imagination vivid; she was sincere, generous, and reasonable."
18450,"What is all this boring, and probing, and sounding, and scrutinizing with the microscope and dividing the surface of the building into registered square inches what is it all but an exaggeration of the application of the one principle or set of principles of search, which are based upon the one set of notions regarding human ingenuity, to which the Prefect, in the long routine of his duty, has been accustomed?"
18451,"He at length succeeded in regaining his former station on the rim, but had hardly done so when his head dropped upon his breast, and he fell dead within the car."
18452,"The lenticular shaped phenomenon, also called the zodiacal light, was a matter worthy of attention."
18453,"Other stars anon shall rise To the axis of the skies; Stars that soothe and stars that bless With a sweet forgetfulness: Only when my round is o'er Shall the past disturb thy door."""
18454,"It was a black cat a very large one fully as large as Pluto, and closely resembling him in every respect but one."
18455,But perhaps this was all madness.
18456,"On page , we have the following: ""What a prodigious influence must our thirteen times larger globe have exercised upon this satellite when an embryo in the womb of time, the passive subject of chemical affinity"" This is very fine; but it should be observed that no astronomer would have made such remark, especially to any journal of Science; for the earth, in the sense intended, is not only thirteen, but forty nine times larger than the moon."
18457,"When they had gone, I spoke freely with M. Valdemar on the subject of his approaching dissolution, as well as, more particularly, of the experiment proposed."
18458,"The ""flight"" is made on an eagle's back, from Hungry Hill, a lofty mountain at the end of Bantry Bay."
18459,"Our joys were dearer because we saw their end; they were keener because we felt, to its fullest extent, their value; they were purer because their essence was sympathy as a meteor is brighter than a star, did the felicity of this winter contain in itself the extracted delights of a long, long life."
18460,"""It was at this juncture that Mr. Monck Mason whose voyage from Dover to Weilburg in the balloon, ""Nassau,"" occasioned so much excitement in , conceived the idea of employing the principle of the Archimedean screw for the purpose of propulsion through the air rightly attributing the failure of Mr. Henson's scheme, and of Sir George Cayley's, to the interruption of surface in the independent vanes."
18461,"From the bright epoch which I now record, my actions my works are the property of mankind."
18462,But success SHALL crown my endeavours.
18463,"I associated with others friendless like myself; I formed them into a band, I was their chief and captain."
18464,"Among the gnarled trees in the front yard of his aged and neglected place he maintains a strange collection of large stones, oddly grouped and painted so that they resemble the idols in some obscure Eastern temple."
18465,"As I stared at the uncannily lighted door and windows, I became subject to the most extravagant visions visions so extravagant that I cannot even relate them."
18466,"The skull turned my stomach, but the other was worse those ankles cut neatly off to fit Matt Fenner's cast aside coffin"" Nyarlathotep . . . the crawling chaos . . ."
18467,He begged me not to be impatient to moderate my transports to read soothing books to drink nothing stronger than Hock and to bring the consolations of philosophy to my aid.
18468,The idee was to drop it daown with the right kind o' prayers an' sech.
18469,"When the pine box was fully uncovered West scrambled down and removed the lid, dragging out and propping up the contents."
18470,He had gone in the carriage to the nearest town where he took a post chaise and horses with orders for the London road.
18471,"I was hardly more devoted to my Idris than to her brother, and she loved him as her teacher, her friend, the benefactor who had secured to her the fulfilment of her dearest wishes."
18472,"When he entered the city, past the bronze gates and over the onyx pavements, the merchants and camel drivers greeted him as if he had never been away; and it was the same at the turquoise temple of Nath Horthath, where the orchid wreathed priests told him that there is no time in Ooth Nargai, but only perpetual youth."
18473,"You recollect also, that I became quite vexed at you for insisting that my drawing resembled a death's head."
18474,"A swirling vapour hid everything but the immediate sloping terrain from sight, and he shrank from the thought of the sounds that might surge out of that vapour."
18475,"And then I wept; yes, warm tears once more struggled into my eyes soothing yet bitter; and after I had wept much and called with unavailing anguish, with outstretched arms, for my cruel father; after my weak frame was exhausted by all variety of plaint I sank once more into reverie, and once more reflected on how I might find that which I most desired; dear to me if aught were dear, a death like solitude."
18476,I could only conceive this singular behavior to arise from a consummate self conceit assuming the vulgar airs of patronage and protection.
18477,"They fled they knew not whither; and the citizens were filled with greater dread, at the convulsion which ""shook lions into civil streets;"" birds, strong winged eagles, suddenly blinded, fell in the market places, while owls and bats shewed themselves welcoming the early night."
18478,"Therein walk only daemons and mad things that are no longer men, and the streets are white with the unburied bones of those who have looked upon the eidolon Lathi, that reigns over the city."""
18479,"Better to decay in absolute delirium, than to be the victim of the methodical unreason of ill bestowed love."
18480,"At the close of a day's march over high mountains and through snowy vallies, we may come upon health, and committing our loved ones to its charge, replant the uprooted tree of humanity, and send to late posterity the tale of the ante pestilential race, the heroes and sages of the lost state of things."
18481,"When at last the clanking subsided, I resumed the trowel, and finished without interruption the fifth, the sixth, and the seventh tier."
18482,"Incomprehensible men Wrapped up in meditations of a kind which I cannot divine, they pass me by unnoticed."
18483,"I was obliged to leave London, and Adrian undertook to watch over him; the task was soon fulfilled; age, grief, and inclement weather, all united to hush his sorrows, and bring repose to his heart, whose beats were agony."
18484,"Unseen things not of earth or at least not of tri dimensional earth rushed foetid and horrible through New England's glens, and brooded obscenely on the mountain tops."
18485,"The stout, shrewd faced agent, whose speech shewed him to be no local man, seemed sympathetic toward my efforts at economy, and made a suggestion that none of my other informants had offered."
18486,I looked on the regal towers of Windsor.
18487,"All this Johansen did not suspect, but God knows he soon saw enough I suppose that only a single mountain top, the hideous monolith crowned citadel whereon great Cthulhu was buried, actually emerged from the waters."
18488,"But such naive reports could mean very little, and Gilman let the cheap metal crucifix hang idly from a knob on his host's dresser."
18489,"John's, I bade the knocker enter, but was answered only by a shrill laugh."
18490,Here again he made an anxious examination of the paper; turning it in all directions.
18491,"What may not the forces, never before united, of liberty and peace achieve in this dwelling of man?"" ""Dreaming, for ever dreaming, Windsor"" said Ryland, the old adversary of Raymond, and candidate for the Protectorate at the ensuing election."
18492,"Reports of the coming cohort must have reached the hills, and even the lack of a final decision could not make the rumour less alarming yet there were the sinister drums as of yore, as if the celebrants had some peculiar reason to be indifferent whether or not the forces of the Roman People marched against them."
18493,His ultimate design was to sell it.
18494,"It was captured by the private soldier Read 'em and Weep Hopkins, who not long after traded it to Rest in Jehovah Stubbs for a quid of new Virginia weed."
18495,"""Nay,"" said Perdita, ""that task shall be mine."
18496,Yet it is obviously from such prominent discrepancies or incongruities as this that deductions are to be made if made at all which shall lead us to the truth.
18497,"The prospect of such an occupation made every other circumstance of existence pass before me like a dream, and that thought only had to me the reality of life."
18498,"These, though in numbers they might form a minority, were the stable element whose constancy might be relied on, and whose cooperation would most firmly bind the province to the Imperium of the Senate and the Roman People."
18499,"Day after day passed marked only by my complaints and my tears; often I lifted my soul in vain prayer for a softer descent from joy to woe, or if that were denied me that I might be allowed to die, and fade for ever under the cruel blast that swept over me, for what should I do here, Like a decaying flower, still withering Under his bitter words, whose kindly heat Should give my poor heart life?C Sometimes I said to myself, this is an enchantment, and I must strive against it."
18500,"Their number would have inspired them with confidence; if, indeed confidence is ever wanting in the breast of the arrant blackguard; and of arrant blackguards alone are the supposed gangs ever constituted."
18501,"Le Diligence Thursday, June ."
18502,"""Divine soul"" said Fraser."
18503,Such is the will of fate Such the decree of the High Ruler from whom there is no appeal: to whom I submit.
18504,"As if beckoned by those who had gone before, I half floated between the titanic snowdrifts, quivering and afraid, into the sightless vortex of the unimaginable."
18505,Finally I summoned up courage and propped the small object up on the table against a book then turned the rays of the peculiar violet light upon it.
18506,"He had not forgotten the criticism aroused when Hannah Bixby's relatives, wishing to transport her body to the cemetery in the city whither they had moved, found the casket of Judge Capwell beneath her headstone."
18507,"If infection depended upon the air, the air was subject to infection."
18508,"Its fair lakes reflect a blue and gentle sky, and when troubled by the winds, their tumult is but as the play of a lively infant when compared to the roarings of the giant ocean."
18509,"It is, for instance, not often that a young physician leaving college is obliged to conceal the principles which guide his selection of a home and office, yet that was the case with Herbert West."
18510,"He is wronged, betrayed, imprisoned save him Verney, you must do this; seek him out in whatever part of the island he is immured; find him, rescue him from his persecutors, restore him to himself, to me on the wide earth I have none to love but only him"" Her earnest appeal, so sweetly and passionately expressed, filled me with wonder and sympathy; and, when she added, with thrilling voice and look, ""Do you consent to undertake this enterprize?"""
18511,I tried how steadily I could maintain the ray upon the eve.
18512,"I was, I own, often tempted to recur to the lawless feats of my boy hood, and knock down the almost tame pheasants that perched upon the trees, and bent their bright eyes on me."
18513,"""As I live,"" I replied."
18514,"And I was going back into the morass, when the moon shone with a fuller red, and I turned and looked again upon the rock, and upon the characters; and the characters were DESOLATION."
18515,"Then, overcome by fatigue, I lay down among some straw and fell asleep."
18516,"For me at least in the circumstances then surrounding me there arose out of the pure abstractions which the hypochondriac contrived to throw upon his canvass, an intensity of intolerable awe, no shadow of which felt I ever yet in the contemplation of the certainly glowing yet too concrete reveries of Fuseli."
18517,"The man paused, and another of the crowd spoke."
18518,Women were screaming.
18519,"Apparently this acidulous matron was right; for about a.m. the whole house was aroused by cries coming from West's room, where when they broke down the door they found the two of us unconscious on the blood stained carpet, beaten, scratched, and mauled, and with the broken remnants of West's bottles and instruments around us."
18520,"The visionary Perdita beheld in all this only a new gloss upon an old reading, and her own was sufficiently inexhaustible to content her."
18521,"Idris now for the first time for many years saw her mother, anxious to assure herself that the childishness of old age did not mingle with unforgotten pride, to make this high born dame still so inveterate against me."
18522,"He seemed, in fine, to have picked up an odd gift of prophecy; and reacted unusually to things which, though at the time without meaning, were later found to justify the singular impressions."
18523,"The complaining ædile's own mother Helvia was a pure Roman, the daughter of M. Helvius Cinna, who had come over with Scipio's army."
18524,"But it would not be so; young and blooming as they were, they would die, and from the hopes of maturity, from the proud name of attained manhood, they were cut off for ever."
18525,"And it might have been for this reason only, that, when I again uplifted my eyes to the house itself, from its image in the pool, there grew in my mind a strange fancy a fancy so ridiculous, indeed, that I but mention it to show the vivid force of the sensations which oppressed me."
18526,He always causes that.
18527,"This reflection unwrinkled my brow, and I could feel and I wept to feel it a half melancholy smile draw from my lips their expression of suffering: I dared indulge better hopes for my future life; years must pass but they would speed lightly away winged by hope, or if they passed heavily, still they would pass and I had not lost my father for ever."
18528,"Yet, for some minutes longer I refrained and stood still."
18529,"And knowing that to this sunken place all the dead had come, I trembled and did not wish again to speak with the lotos faces."
18530,"I breathed hard, but not so much from the sight itself as from the possibilities my imagination terrifiedly conjured up."
18531,"When they left their older peaks they took with them all signs of themselves; save once, it is said, when they left a carven image on the face of the mountain which they called Ngranek."
18532,"As his hammer blows began to fall, the horse outside whinnied in a tone which may have been encouraging and may have been mocking."
18533,"Excavated back into the hillside, the structure is visible only at the entrance."
18534,"My implements were all safe, and, fortunately, I had lost neither ballast nor provisions."
18535,"He was forthwith conveyed to the nearest hospital, and there pronounced to be still living, although in an asphytic condition."
18536,"Yet I would not suffer my thoughts for any length of time to dwell upon these latter speculations, rightly judging the real and palpable dangers of the voyage sufficient for my undivided attention."
18537,"""Sir,"" I reply'd, ""you are mistaken."
18538,"Subsequently he seemed to be satisfied, and crossing to a chair by the table wrote a brief note, handed it to me, and returned to the table, where he began to write rapidly and incessantly."
18539,"""My best girl,"" he had said, ""relieves me from these phantasies."
18540,"On the list were several of my acquaintances, and among other names, I was rejoiced to see that of Mr. Cornelius Wyatt, a young artist, for whom I entertained feelings of warm friendship."
18541,"Not a single little o was in the little o hole; and, glancing fearfully at the capital O partition, he found that to his extreme terror, in a precisely similar predicament."
18542,"We kept on in this manner throughout the day, with no material incident, and, as the shades of night closed around us, we made a rough estimate of the distance traversed."
18543,"The English spirit awoke to its full activity, and, as it had ever done, set itself to resist the evil, and to stand in the breach which diseased nature had suffered chaos and death to make in the bounds and banks which had hitherto kept them out."
18544,"In the unsteady glance of his eye, in his extreme desire to learn the opinions of all, in the feebleness of his hand writing, these qualities might be obscurely traced, but they were not generally known."
18545,Le Commerciel wishes to intimate that Marie was seized by some gang of low ruffians not far from her mother's door.
18546,My plan was exceedingly simple.
18547,"I was mad with excess of passionate devotion; but pride, tameless as fire, invested my nature, and prevented me from betraying myself by word or look."
18548,"I would have removed my position to one nearer her own, but the crowded state of the theatre rendered this impossible; and the stern decrees of Fashion had, of late, imperatively prohibited the use of the opera glass in a case such as this, even had I been so fortunate as to have one with me but I had not and was thus in despair."
18549,"After the recognition of the corpse, it was not, as usual, taken to the Morgue, this formality being superfluous, but hastily interred not far from the spot at which it was brought ashore."
18550,"Fairest of all is the palace of the great monarch Dorieb, whom some say to be a demigod and others a god."
18551,"Their origin was to be looked for in the progressive removal of the customary atmospheric pressure upon the surface of the body, and consequent distention of the superficial blood vessels not in any positive disorganization of the animal system, as in the case of difficulty in breathing, where the atmospheric density is chemically insufficient for the due renovation of blood in a ventricle of the heart."
18552,"""They didn't git him,"" he muttered in his heavy bass voice."
18553,"The Americans permitted a few to join their band, and presently the recruits outnumbered the strangers nor did they join with them, nor imitate the admirable order which, preserved by the Trans Atlantic chiefs, rendered them at once secure and formidable."
18554,"On this day, Wednesday, the twenty fifth of June, a Monsieur Beauvais, who, with a friend, had been making inquiries for Marie near the Barrière du Roule, on the shore of the Seine which is opposite the Rue Pavée St. Andrée, was informed that a corpse had just been towed ashore by some fishermen, who had found it floating in the river."
18555,To him a pas de papillon has been an abstract conception.
18556,"We could not tear ourselves away from each other nor persuade ourselves to say the word ""Farewell"" It was said, and we retired under the pretence of seeking repose, each fancying that the other was deceived; but when at morning's dawn I descended to the carriage which was to convey me away, they were all there my father again to bless me, Clerval to press my hand once more, my Elizabeth to renew her entreaties that I would write often and to bestow the last feminine attentions on her playmate and friend."
18557,"A truce to philosophy Life is before me, and I rush into possession."
18558,Good augury should this festival be of the happiness of future years.
18559,"But there was no voice throughout the vast illimitable desert, and the characters upon the rock were SILENCE."
18560,"The magician then arises from his seat, bows his head, describes circles with his wand, and consulting the book as If in deep thought, he lifts it towards his face."
18561,"It was a repulsive task that we undertook in the black small hours, even though we lacked at that time the special horror of graveyards which later experiences brought to us."
18562,"""Moissart and Voissart"" I repeated, thoughtfully, as she cut one of her pigeon wings, and ""Croissart and Froissart"" as she completed another ""Moissart and Voissart and Croissart and Napoleon Bonaparte Froissart why, you ineffable old serpent, that's me that's me d'ye hear?"
18563,"B. The poisonous sangsue of Charlottesville may always be distinguished from the medicinal leech by its blackness, and especially by its writhing or vermicular motions, which very nearly resemble those of a snake."""
18564,if indeed such angels there be.
18565,The impetuous fury of the entering gust nearly lifted us from our feet.
18566,"Over hidden wires strange messages travelled, and much was said of still stranger messages yet to travel; but most of this was not guessed till afterward,when the Western Land was safe from the peril."
18567,"It had caved in like an egg shell, and amongst the ruins nothing living or dead could be discovered."
18568,"I explained to them, in a few words, what I designed, and as they opposed no objection, saying that the patient was already in the death agony, I proceeded without hesitation exchanging, however, the lateral passes for downward ones, and directing my gaze entirely into the right eye of the sufferer."
18569,"I watched him long his heavy half closed lids, his burning cheeks and restless twining of his small fingers the fever was violent, the torpor complete enough, without the greater fear of pestilence, to awaken alarm."
18570,"The girl met him at the door, helped to relieve him of his burden, and taking some of the fuel into the cottage, placed it on the fire; then she and the youth went apart into a nook of the cottage, and he showed her a large loaf and a piece of cheese."
18571,"The facts here re stated by Le Soleil, are very far indeed from removing my own doubts upon this subject, and we will examine them more particularly hereafter in connexion with another division of the theme."
18572,I will not dwell on the last changes that I feel in the final decay of nature.
18573,"This latter point, however, was fully disproved."
18574,"Upon retiring, he had had an unprecedented dream of great Cyclopean cities of titan blocks and sky flung monoliths, all dripping with green ooze and sinister with latent horror."
18575,"Such madness it was which drove Klenze to his death, bareheaded and unprotected in the ocean; but I am a Prussian and a man of sense, and will use to the last what little will I have."
18576,"Indeed, old Sir Wade had possessed an intellectual zeal amounting almost to a mania; his bizarre conjectures on a prehistoric white Congolese civilisation earning him much ridicule when his book, Observations on the Several Parts of Africa, was published."
18577,"When I suggested other physicians, the sufferer would fly into as much of a rage as he seemed to dare to entertain."
18578,The pieces of her frock torn out by the bushes were about three inches wide and six inches long.
18579,"Then came the devastating stroke of lightning which shook the whole mountain, lit the darkest crypts of the hoary grove, and splintered the patriarch of the twisted trees."
18580,"By the by, he came away from Down East in a great hurry."
18581,"I began to realise how some of poor Klenze's moods had arisen, for as the temple drew me more and more, I feared its aqueous abysses with a blind and mounting terror."
18582,"""Gawd almighty, the grass an' bushes is a movin' It's a goin' up slow like creepin' up ter the top this minute, heaven only knows what fur"" Then the germ of panic seemed to spread among the seekers."
18583,It was the beating of the old man's heart.
18584,"It had been my design, originally, to wait for the physicians; but I was induced to proceed, first, by the urgent entreaties of M. Valdemar, and secondly, by my conviction that I had not a moment to lose, as he was evidently sinking fast."
18585,"No, it was not there, but there was the big silver key he had found in a box somewhere."
18586,"The sea was fifty miles off, yet it was towards it that he fled."
18587,Darkness fell upon a stricken countryside too passive to organise for real defence.
18588,"The chances are ten to one, that he who had once eloped with Marie, would again propose an elopement, rather than that she to whom proposals of elopement had been made by one individual, should have them made to her by another."
18589,"I was to be his consoler, his companion in after years."
18590,"Custom had dinned into his ears a superstitious reverence for that which tangibly and physically exists, and had made him secretly ashamed to dwell in visions."
18591,"On the afternoon of June , as reported by wireless to the U , bound for Kiel, we torpedoed the British freighter Victory, New York to Liverpool, in N. Latitude , W. Longitude ; permitting the crew to leave in boats in order to obtain a good cinema view for the admiralty records."
18592,"Scattered and unconnected as they were, I have been obliged to add links, and model the work into a consistent form."
18593,"The urge to walk was gradually changing to an urge to leap mystically into space, and suddenly he realised just where the source of the pull lay."
18594,I love you very tenderly.
18595,"That this 'bandage,' only attainable with trouble and delay, and but imperfectly answering its purpose that this bandage was employed at all, demonstrates that the necessity for its employment sprang from circumstances arising at a period when the handkerchief was no longer attainable that is to say, arising, as we have imagined, after quitting the thicket, if the thicket it was, and on the road between the thicket and the river."
18596,"Cries of horror filled the place every one endeavoured to effect his escape in a few minutes the market place was cleared the corpse lay on the ground; and the maniac, subdued and exhausted, sat beside it, leaning his gaunt cheek upon his thin hand."
18597,"The old spinning woman had gone with the throng, and the old man remained only because I had refused when he motioned me to seize an animal and ride like the rest."
18598,"Frankenstein discovered that I made notes concerning his history; he asked to see them and then himself corrected and augmented them in many places, but principally in giving the life and spirit to the conversations he held with his enemy."
18599,"Love of the Greek people, appetite for glory, and hatred of the barbarian government under which he had suffered even to the approach of death, stimulated him."
18600,"I resolved, let what would befall, to see and converse with her the following day."
18601,"My own German will no longer controls my acts, and volition is henceforward possible only in minor matters."
18602,"Yet this small interval was to save us: the sea was to rise a wall of adamant without, disease and misery within, a shelter from evil, a nook of the garden of paradise a particle of celestial soil, which no evil could invade truly we were wise in our generation, to imagine all these things But we are awake now."
18603,"Thus situated, my only resource was to drive before the wind."
18604,"About midnight I returned to the palace and sought Raymond; he was alone, and apparently composed; such composure, at least, was his as is inspired by a resolve to adhere to a certain line of conduct."
18605,Arthur Jermyn went out on the moor and burned himself after seeing the boxed object which had come from Africa.
18606,"As the names Trever, Lawrence, and Appleton fell on the air, the loafers seemed to sense something unusual."
18607,Poor Clerval What must have been his feelings?
18608,"And the soldiers at Jaren laughed at me and drave me out, so that I wandered to many other cities."
18609,"""He has been twice waylaid, as if by footpads, and his person rigorously searched under my own inspection."""
18610,"As it was, I at length grew restive in the extreme under his distasteful supervision, and daily resented more and more openly what I considered his intolerable arrogance."
18611,I dragged my watch from its fob.
18612,"Corona Borealis, which my friend had appeared to dread, and whose scintillant semicircle of stars must even now be glowing unseen through the measureless abysses of aether."
18613,"How irksome were these three days to me All sleep and appetite fled from me; I could only read and re read his letter, and in the solitude of the woods imagine the moment of our meeting."
18614,"I took thee, just now, from a rose wood coffin inlaid with ivory."
18615,"As the first violence of Musides' grief gave place to resignation, he laboured with diligence upon his figure of Tyché."
18616,"""Saturday, April the th."
18617,"We did not want for occupation; but my eager disposition was now turned to the field of intellectual exertion only; and hard study I found to be an excellent medicine to allay a fever of spirit with which in indolence, I should doubtless have been assailed."
18618,"A young practising physician, too, having applied a pocket mirror to my mouth, and found me without breath, the assertion of my persecutor was pronounced a true bill; and the whole party expressed a determination to endure tamely no such impositions for the future, and to proceed no farther with any such carcasses for the present."
18619,"I knew in that second all that had been; I remembered beyond the frightful castle and the trees, and recognised the altered edifice in which I now stood; I recognised, most terrible of all, the unholy abomination that stood leering before me as I withdrew my sullied fingers from its own."
18620,"That the passages quoted above, with the other similar ones referred to, gave Von Kempelen the hint, I do not in the slightest degree question; but I repeat, it yet remains to be seen whether this momentous discovery itself momentous under any circumstances will be of service or disservice to mankind at large."
18621,"Let him live with me in the interchange of kindness, and instead of injury I would bestow every benefit upon him with tears of gratitude at his acceptance."
18622,"But this is no answer at all, by his own showing, for has he not just admitted as a truism that ""ability or inability to conceive is in no case to be received as a criterion of axiomatic truth."""
18623,"This chamber he lined with tall, firm shelving; along which he began gradually to arrange, in apparently careful order, all the rotting ancient books and parts of books which during his own day had been heaped promiscuously in odd corners of the various rooms."
18624,"My name and origin need not be related to posterity; in fact, I fancy it is better that they should not be, for when a man suddenly migrates to the States or the Colonies, he leaves his past behind him."
18625,"I extended my ride towards Salt Hill, on every side impeded by the snow."
18626,Half the chants of the Sabbat were patterned on this faintly overheard pulsing which no earthly ear could endure in its unveiled spatial fulness.
18627,"""Be assured that earth is not, nor ever can be heaven, while the seeds of hell are natives of her soil."
18628,"We reached London, methought, all too soon; and yet I could not regret our speedy arrival, when I witnessed the extasy with which my beloved girl found herself in her brother's arms, safe from every evil, under his unblamed protection."
18629,Hard fate yet there was some alleviation to the first overwhelming paroxysm of my sorrow.
18630,"Walking softly over to the Washington Street side I perceived several open doorways, and chose the nearest as my route out."
18631,"Mr. Hoadley disappeared soon after delivering this sermon; but the text, printed in Springfield, is still extant."
18632,"""Other men,"" I observed, ""may be better musicians."""
18633,"But, of course, as I had no wish to put an end to the conference, I assented to a proposition so very obvious, and one, too, of whose truth I had all along been sufficiently aware."
18634,"I would not marry a reigning sovereign, were I not sure that her heart was free."
18635,"My brother was at the stern, holding on to a small empty water cask which had been securely lashed under the coop of the counter, and was the only thing on deck that had not been swept overboard when the gale first took us."
18636,"In a night such as is this to me, a man lives lives a whole century of ordinary life nor would I forego this rapturous delight for that of a whole century of ordinary existence."
18637,"AFTER a long interval, I am again impelled by the restless spirit within me to continue my narration; but I must alter the mode which I have hitherto adopted."
18638,She devoted herself to the study of her son's disposition.
18639,"And, indeed the case was just the same with all the other clocks and watches in the borough."
18640,"I won't say that all this is wholly true in body, but 'tis sufficient true to furnish a very pretty spectacle now and then."
18641,"Through my terror ran curious reminiscences of Paradise Lost, and of Satan's hideous climb through the unfashioned realms of darkness."
18642,But these figures partook of the true character of the arabesque only when regarded from a single point of view.
18643,"""Bless my soul blood and thunder, and all that prodigies of valor heard of him of course?"
18644,"And in the twilight, as the stars came out one by one and the moon cast on the marsh a radiance like that which a child sees quivering on the floor as he is rocked to sleep at evening, there walked into the lethal quicksands a very old man in tattered purple, crowned with withered vine leaves and gazing ahead as if upon the golden domes of a fair city where dreams are understood."
18645,"""Hem"" said he, ""good boy go on"" ""I am sure, my dearest uncle you confounded old rascal, that you have no design really, seriously, to oppose my union with Kate."
18646,"At right angles to these buildings, and from the rear of the main one not exactly in the middle extended a third compartment, very small being, in general, one third less than the western wing."
18647,"""She arrived in safety at a town about twenty leagues from the cottage of De Lacey, when her attendant fell dangerously ill."
18648,It now required long and excessive labor to condense within the chamber sufficient atmospheric air for the sustenance of life.
18649,"In this state of mind, wishing to live, yet wearied with life, the treatise at the stall of the bookseller opened a resource to my imagination."
18650,"I knew that a thousand fearful accidents might occur, the slightest of which would disclose a tale to thrill all connected with me with horror."
18651,"I knew that it was now midnight, and I was well aware, that since the setting of the sun, Berenice had been interred."
18652,"He must meet the Black Man, and go with them all to the throne of Azathoth at the centre of ultimate Chaos."
18653,"For, in respect to the latter branch of the supposition, it should be considered that the most trifling variation in the facts of the two cases might give rise to the most important miscalculations, by diverting thoroughly the two courses of events; very much as, in arithmetic, an error which, in its own individuality, may be inappreciable, produces, at length, by dint of multiplication at all points of the process, a result enormously at variance with truth."
18654,"Birch decided that he would begin the next day with little old Matthew Fenner, whose grave was also near by; but actually postponed the matter for three days, not getting to work till Good Friday, the th."
18655,Nor has he yet had any difficulty in obtaining tenants.
18656,"Presently he took from his coat pocket a wallet, placed the paper carefully in it, and deposited both in a writing desk, which he locked."
18657,"He was, West nervously said, a congenial stranger whom we had met at some downtown bar of uncertain location."
18658,"I was exceedingly surprised on receiving so rude an answer from a stranger, and I was also disconcerted on perceiving the frowning and angry countenances of his companions."
18659,"Let them raise a mound above my lifeless body, which may stand even when the dome of St. Sophia has fallen."
18660,"For as the voice which has come has brought fresh mists from the sea and from the north fresh lights, so do they say that still other voices will bring more mists and more lights, till perhaps the olden gods whose existence they hint only in whispers for fear the Congregational parson shall hear may come out of the deep and from unknown Kadath in the cold waste and make their dwelling on that evilly appropriate crag so close to the gentle hills and valleys of quiet simple fisherfolk."
18661,"It was an ordinary Parisian house, with a gateway, on one side of which was a glazed watch box, with a sliding panel in the window, indicating a loge de concierge."
18662,"I was placed in a remote part of the house, and only saw my aunt at stated hours."
18663,"Fear has its grisly claws upon him, and a sound will make him start with staring eyes and sweat beaded forehead."
18664,"The fellow opened his mouth from ear to ear, and shut his two eyes as if he were endeavoring to crack nuts between the lids."
18665,"I walked rapidly, softly, and close to the ruined houses."
18666,"At eight P. M., the clouds broke away to windward, and we had the advantage of a full moon a piece of good fortune which served wonderfully to cheer our drooping spirits."
18667,"He appeared given up to contemplation, averse to excitement, a lowly student, a man of visions but afford him worthy theme, and Like to the lark at break of day arising, From sullen earth, sings hymns at heaven's gate."
18668,"Encompassed by the massy walls of this venerable academy, I passed, yet not in tedium or disgust, the years of the third lustrum of my life."
18669,"I tore a part of the hem from the robe and placed the fragment at full length, and at right angles to the wall."
18670,"Thus, the balloon can neither ascend or descend, except within very narrow limits, and its resources, either in gas or ballast, remain comparatively unimpaired."
18671,"If I erred, he was not scholar enough to correct me; for he seemed childishly pleased at my English version."
18672,At this point the first excited speaker interrupted.
18673,"He had partially unveiled the face of Nature, but her immortal lineaments were still a wonder and a mystery."
18674,"""Then you are not of the brotherhood."""
18675,"Your temper is made unequal by suffering, and the tenor of your mind is, I fear, sometimes shaken by unworthy causes; but let your confidence in my sympathy and love be deeper far, and incapable of being reached by these agitations that come and go, and if they touch not your affections leave you uninjured."""
18676,"It was our design to sit up together till very late, and then watch singly till dawn in two hour stretches, myself first and then my companion; the inactive member resting on the cot."
18677,"Perdita, who then resided with Evadne, saw the torture that Adrian endured."
18678,It must: but a true philosophy has long taught that the source of all motion is thought and the source of all thought is OINOS.
18679,Object there was none.
18680,"I do not wish to take any unfair advantage, and I beg therefore that you will take some days to consider of your determination.' ""'It is utterly useless,' replied Felix; 'we can never again inhabit your cottage."
18681,"The man who had been Joe Slater, the Catskill decadent, was now gazing at me with a pair of luminous, expanded eyes whose blue seemed subtly to have deepened."
18682,"Wildly excited with wine, the unexpected interruption rather delighted than surprised me."
18683,"To leave the country of our fathers, made holy by their graves We could not feel even as a voluntary exile of old, who might for pleasure or convenience forsake his native soil; though thousands of miles might divide him, England was still a part of him, as he of her."
18684,All this had undoubtedly formed the basis of the legend known by old Maria Robbins.
18685,"""No; he quitted the house before four this morning."""
18686,"He did not leave me for many hours; not until he had improved the spark that he had kindled, and with an angelic hand fostered the return of somthing that seemed like joy."
18687,This would naturally have been the case.
18688,"This done, he opens the doors No. and No. , the folding doors and displays the interior of the main compartment."
18689,All the movements of the arm are at right angles.
18690,"All in my heart was shadowy yet calm, untill my ideas became confused and at length died away in sleep."
18691,"Once in a while it seemed as though we detected a skulking form in the woods nearby, and after a half hour's climb the steepness and narrowness of the way made the advance of so great a body of men over , all told exceedingly cumbrous and difficult."
18692,"Get bald, too, very young."
18693,"His jaws, which had been newly shaved, were tightly tied up by a bandage of muslin; and his arms being fastened in a similar way at the wrists, I prevented him from helping himself too freely to the liquors upon the table; a precaution rendered necessary, in the opinion of Legs, by the peculiarly sottish and wine bibbing cast of his visage."
18694,After that we lived in growing horror and fascination.
18695,There was no one in the corridor.
18696,"From the very nature of such fabrics, a thorn or nail becoming entangled in them, tears them rectangularly divides them into two longitudinal rents, at right angles with each other, and meeting at an apex where the thorn enters but it is scarcely possible to conceive the piece 'torn off.'"
18697,West clashed disagreeably with Dr. Halsey near the end of our last undergraduate term in a wordy dispute that did less credit to him than to the kindly dean in point of courtesy.
18698,"He was vastly jealous of Dr. Johnson, tho' none the less liking and respecting him."
18699,"""My friends,"" I said, ""our risk is common; our precautions and exertions shall be common also."
18700,"""Rest"" she cried, ""repose you rave, Lionel If you delay we are lost; come, I pray you, unless you would cast me off for ever."""
18701,"The tender attachment that he bore me, and the love and veneration with which I returned it cast a charm over every moment."
18702,"""Readily; I have solved others of an abstruseness ten thousand times greater."
18703,"Our fear of the police was absurdly great, though we had timed our trip to avoid the solitary patrolman of that section."
18704,"Among the other transcendant attributes of Mozart's music, it possesses more than any other that of appearing to come from the heart; you enter into the passions expressed by him, and are transported with grief, joy, anger, or confusion, as he, our soul's master, chooses to inspire."
18705,At this shadow I gazed wonderingly for many minutes.
18706,"At length his eyes unclosed faintly, yet with a look of returning life; he became pale and weak; but the rigidity of his features was softened by approaching convalescence."
18707,This was superstition.
18708,"Plague shall not find us a ready prey; we will dispute every inch of ground; and, by methodical and inflexible laws, pile invincible barriers to the progress of our foe."
18709,"In fact, I no longer dared trust myself out of the immediate presence of those who were aware of my proneness to catalepsy, lest, falling into one of my usual fits, I should be buried before my real condition could be ascertained."
18710,"Here Mr. Crab concluded, and the tears stood in his eyes."
18711,"Where were the souls of the haughty family of the bride, when, through thirst of gold, they permitted to pass the threshold of an apartment so bedecked, a maiden and a daughter so beloved?"
18712,"All around him stretched the bleak emptiness of salt marshes, while the narrow road ahead led to Innsmouth that ancient, half deserted town which Arkham people were so curiously unwilling to visit."
18713,They give a sarten number o' young folks to the sea things twict every year May Eve an' Hallowe'en reg'lar as cud be.
18714,Here he turned impatiently toward the stage.
18715,"His flesh, though dry and firm, was of the quality of ice; and I almost shrank away from his pulling."
18716,Not that this indulgence was devoid of accompanying grief.
18717,"West had still another source of worry, for he had been called in the afternoon to a case which ended very threateningly."
18718,"The faint rose again blushed on his cheek; his brow and lips lost the ashy paleness of threatened dissolution; such was the dear reward of my unremitting attention and bounteous heaven added overflowing recompence, when it gave me also the thanks and smiles of Idris."
18719,"She had been employed in arranging for their departure; she had promised Raymond during this decisive evening, to take advantage of our absence, to go one stage of the journey, and he, after his defeat was ascertained, would slip away from us, and join her."
18720,Yet why do I say this?
18721,"But having at length accomplished it, I soon began to reap the benefit of my invention."
18722,"He remembered that he had promised Perdita to be present this very evening the th of October, anniversary of his election as Protector at a festival given in his honour."
18723,"As for Bob, he would have considered it heretical to employ any other character, in a case of this kind, than the x to which he had been accustomed."
18724,Do I not distinguish that heavy and horrible beating of her heart?
18725,"It may seem strange that in spite of the continual anxiety occasioned me by the rivalry of Wilson, and his intolerable spirit of contradiction, I could not bring myself to hate him altogether."
18726,"We had receded from the crowd; and ascending the steps of the terrace, sought the Castle."
18727,"They they alone were present to the mental eye, and they, in their sole individuality, became the essence of my mental life."
18728,"So thick were the vapours that the way was hard, and though Atal followed on at last, he could scarce see the grey shape of Barzai on the dim slope above in the clouded moonlight."
18729,I had indeed made a narrow escape.
18730,"No one spoke to me, but I could hear the creaking of signs in the wind outside, and the whir of the wheel as the bonneted old woman continued her silent spinning, spinning."
18731,The contents of these papers were important.
18732,"Then came out of the earth the black spirits of earth, mouldy and shadowy, and full of dim rumours picked up in caverns beneath forgotten sea bottoms."
18733,"Most fearfully, fearfully this is indeed no dream."
18734,"However, my rapping evoked no response, so after repeating the summons I tried the rusty latch and found the door unfastened."
18735,"Now swift and splintering blows assailed the sickly panels, and I saw the gleam of a tomahawk as it cleft the rending wood."
18736,"My fate has been governed by necessity, a hideous necessity."
18737,"The next evening therefore, though the autumnal change had brought on cold and rain, Adrian and Idris entered my cottage."
18738,"A similar objection applies to the whole of the concluding pages, where, by way of introduction to some discoveries in Saturn, the philosophical correspondent enters into a minute schoolboy account of that planet this to the ""Edinburgh journal of Science"" But there is one point, in particular, which should have betrayed the fiction."
18739,"The box behind which the Automaton is placed, is precisely three feet six inches long, two feet four inches deep, and two feet six inches high."
18740,The shutting of the gates regularly at ten o'clock and the impossibility of remaining on the lake after that hour had rendered our residence within the walls of Geneva very irksome to me.
18741,But it was so silent.
18742,"At last beginning my attempt, I lunged again and again at the thin panelling with my left shoulder, heedless of shock or pain."
18743,She had not returned my letter unopened.
18744,"Her fear had been too deep, too absorbing, too entire, to be changed to security."
18745,"And far out at sea, despite a high tide, I glimpsed a long, black line scarcely rising above the water yet carrying a suggestion of odd latent malignancy."
18746,"Once my uncle thought he lay in a carelessly dug open pit, with a crowd of angry faces framed by straggling locks and three cornered hats frowning down on him."
18747,"Walakea allaowed as the things was scattered all over the world, so's anybody that looked abaout cud find a nest an' bring 'em up ef they was wanted."
18748,"Up to his discovery, the process of inflation was not only exceedingly expensive, but uncertain."
18749,"Once I caught the name of Charles Le Sorcier, and again I fancied that the words ""years"" and ""curse"" issued from the twisted mouth."
18750,"She had told Judge Hathorne of lines and curves that could be made to point out directions leading through the walls of space to other spaces beyond, and had implied that such lines and curves were frequently used at certain midnight meetings in the dark valley of the white stone beyond Meadow Hill and on the unpeopled island in the river."
18751,The completion of my demoniacal design became an insatiable passion.
18752,"They consisted of people of the middling and lower classes of society, whose means of subsistence failed with the cessation of trade, and of the busy spirit of money making in all its branches, peculiar to our country."
18753,"My feelings are profound, but I possessed a coolness of judgment that fitted me for illustrious achievements."
18754,What else could I think?
18755,To them he told a simple story.
18756,"It was this object, and not his peculiar personal appearance, which made him end his life."
18757,"The ice desert of the South and the sunken isles of Ocean hold stones whereon Their seal is engraven, but who hath seen the deep frozen city or the sealed tower long garlanded with seaweed and barnacles?"
18758,"There was a considerable difference between the ages of my parents, but this circumstance seemed to unite them only closer in bonds of devoted affection."
18759,"And the will therein lieth, which dieth not."
18760,"Forms strangely robed, but at once noble and familiar, walked abroad, and under the horned waning moon men talked wisdom in a tongue which I understood, though it was unlike any language I had ever known."
18761,My companion will be of the same nature as myself and will be content with the same fare.
18762,They were alive with a teeming horde of shapes swimming inward toward the town; and even at my vast distance and in my single moment of perception I could tell that the bobbing heads and flailing arms were alien and aberrant in a way scarcely to be expressed or consciously formulated.
18763,"As night came on, every breath of wind died away, an more entire calm it is impossible to conceive."
18764,"It was of the size of life, and so perfect an imitation of the living animal that all the spectators were deceived."
18765,"Oh, I kin tell ye, little pitchers hev big ears, an' I wa'n't missin' nothin' o' what was gossiped abaout Cap'n Obed an' the folks aout to the reef Heh, heh, heh Haow abaout the night I took my pa's ship's glass up to the cupalo an' seed the reef a bristlin' thick with shapes that dove off quick soon's the moon riz?"
18766,"It is difficult, indeed, to define, or even to describe, my real feelings towards him."
18767,"But in Teloth was nothing green, for all was of stone."
18768,"Stunned by the shock of the water, I found myself, upon recovery, jammed in between the stern post and rudder."
18769,"I trod heaven in my thoughts, now exulting in my powers, now burning with the idea of their effects."
18770,"I called to mind the great variety of buoyant matter that strewed the coast of Lofoden, having been absorbed and then thrown forth by the Moskoe ström."
18771,"Everywhere I see bliss, from which I alone am irrevocably excluded."
18772,"Just as I placed the parchment in your hand, and as you were in the act of inspecting it, Wolf, the Newfoundland, entered, and leaped upon your shoulders."
18773,"Although M. Maelzel, in disclosing the interior of the machine, sometimes slightly deviates from the routine which we have pointed out, yet reeler in any instance does he so deviate from it as to interfere with our solution."
18774,"""Profound thinker"" said the Dublin."
18775,Pickman was shewing what happens to those stolen babes how they grow up and then I began to see a hideous relationship in the faces of the human and non human figures.
18776,"When the red Aldebaran, which blinked low in the sky but never set, had crawled a quarter of the way around the horizon, I saw light and motion in the houses and the streets."
18777,"It may be advanced for a truth, that, if argument or entreaty can turn any one from a desperate purpose, whose motive and end depends on the strength of the affections only, then it is right so to turn them, since their docility shews, that neither the motive nor the end were of sufficient force to bear them through the obstacles attendant on their undertaking."
18778,"she is undoubtedly in painting what the Venus is in sculpture."""
18779,"His enthusiasm had seemed for the moment to remove from his terrible eyes the hatred that had at first so haunted them, but suddenly the fiendish glare returned, and with a shocking sound like the hissing of a serpent, the stranger raised a glass phial with the evident intent of ending my life as had Charles Le Sorcier, six hundred years before, ended that of my ancestor."
18780,Every breathing creature within the walls was massacred.
18781,"Wilbur was never subsequently seen alive and conscious without complete and tightly buttoned attire, the disarrangement or threatened disarrangement of which always seemed to fill him with anger and alarm."
18782,My heart was bleeding from its death's wound; I could live no otherwise Often amid apparent calm I was visited by despair and melancholy; gloom that nought could dissipate or overcome; a hatred of life; a carelessness of beauty; all these would by fits hold me nearly annihilated by their powers.
18783,"This enthusiasm is now spent, I know not why; I seem to myself to be entering a darksome gulph; the ardent spirit of the army is irksome to me, the rapture of triumph null."""
18784,"Oppressed with a tumult of vague hopes and fears, I at length heard the footsteps of my wife descending the staircase."
18785,"For, this infirmity you virtually deny, in refusing to employ the customary means for its relief."
18786,"But my wonder was not overwhelming, since for the most part I shared the materialism of my friend."
18787,Plainly I perceived the loosening of the bandage.
18788,"I was spared the disgrace of appearing publicly as a criminal, as the case was not brought before the court that decides on life and death."
18789,"The earth, late wide circus for the display of dignified exploits, vast theatre for a magnificent drama, now presented a vacant space, an empty stage for actor or spectator there was no longer aught to say or hear."
18790,"The instant that I left 'the devil's seat,' however, the circular rift vanished; nor could I get a glimpse of it afterwards, turn as I would."
18791,"Upon the broad black marble flagstones at the entrance of the palace, and a few steps above the water, stood a figure which none who then saw can have ever since forgotten."
18792,"That it was not the case, however, my precipitous downfall gave testimony enough; why it was not so, can only be explained by a reference to those possible geological disturbances to which I have formerly alluded."
18793,"In summer the gardens were cooled with fresh odorous breezes skilfully wafted by fans, and in winter they were heated with concealed fires, so that in those gardens it was always spring."
18794,"It was Mr. Ellison who first suggested the idea that what we regarded as improvement or exaltation of the natural beauty, was really such, as respected only the mortal or human point of view; that each alteration or disturbance of the primitive scenery might possibly effect a blemish in the picture, if we could suppose this picture viewed at large from some remote point in the heavens."
18795,"He was blond, handsome, and spoiled; vivacious and eager to taste the several forms of dissipation about which he had read and heard."
18796,"Steps sounded again, and Olney edged round to the north; but before he could find a haven a voice called softly, and he knew he must confront his host."
18797,"She fell dead upon the spot, without a groan."
18798,"""All in Teloth must toil,"" replied the archon, ""for that is the law."""
18799,"Thus ended my conference with the best of men, and immediately upon its termination, I betook myself with zeal to my poetical labors; as upon these, chiefly, I founded my hopes of ultimate elevation to the editorial chair."
18800,"It gave ideality to that, from which, taken in naked truth, the soul would have revolted: it bestowed pictorial colours on misery and disease, and not unfrequently relieved me from despair in deplorable changes."
18801,A neat diddle is this.
18802,"Upon my recovery, too, I felt very oh, inexpressibly sick and weak, as if through long inanition."
18803,"Still others, including Joe himself, have theories too wild and fantastic for sober credence."
18804,He repeated the movement a grotesque one.
18805,"Although she was elder than he by nearly two years the nature of her education made her more childish at least in the knowledge and expression of feeling; she received his warm protestations with innocence, and returned them unknowing of what they meant."
18806,"The flopping animals were now scratching restlessly at the lichens, and I saw that the old man was nearly as restless himself."
18807,"Her faultless nature, one sum of perfections, is wrapt up in her affections if they were hurt, she would droop like an unwatered floweret, and the slightest injury they receive is a nipping frost to her."
18808,"Upon the outbreak of trouble with Great Britain in , William Harris, despite his scant sixteen years and feeble constitution, managed to enlist in the Army of Observation under General Greene; and from that time on enjoyed a steady rise in health and prestige."
18809,"The examination, the presence of the magistrate and witnesses, passed like a dream from my memory when I saw the lifeless form of Henry Clerval stretched before me."
18810,"It was his custom, indeed, to speak calmly of his approaching dissolution, as of a matter neither to be avoided nor regretted."
18811,"So much has been done, exclaimed the soul of Frankenstein more, far more, will I achieve; treading in the steps already marked, I will pioneer a new way, explore unknown powers, and unfold to the world the deepest mysteries of creation."
18812,"Would that I also had a career Would that I could freight some untried bark with all my hopes, energies, and desires, and launch it forth into the ocean of life bound for some attainable point, with ambition or pleasure at the helm But adverse winds detain me on shore; like Ulysses, I sit at the water's edge and weep."
18813,"Any scrap will answer, because you must depend upon your own ingenuity to make it fit into your article."
18814,"I was still cold when under one of the trees I found a huge cloak, with which I covered myself, and sat down upon the ground."
18815,"As he justly observed, it was ""simple neat and gave no trouble at all not the least."""
18816,They shrank alarmedly back; many sought the well.
18817,"It is the likeness of a dead friend a Mr. Oldeb to whom I became much attached at Calcutta, during the administration of Warren Hastings."
18818,"But everteeming Nature will create another and another, and thou wilt loose nought by my destruction."
18819,"They will soon rise again, however but not till the salt melts."""
18820,"Close curtains were around it, which, in the prosecution of my plan, I slowly and quietly withdrew, when the bright rays fell vividly upon the sleeper, and my eyes, at the same moment, upon his countenance."
18821,"I must be careful how I record my awaking today, for I am unstrung, and much hallucination is necessarily mixed with fact."
18822,I merely laughed but he seemed quite serious in all that he said.
18823,An hour thus elapsed when could it be possible?
18824,"It was during one of my lonely journeyings, amid a far distant region of mountain locked within mountain, and sad rivers and melancholy tarn writhing or sleeping within all that I chanced upon a certain rivulet and island."
18825,"At a piano, singing an aria from Bellini, sat a young and very beautiful woman, who, at my entrance, paused in her song, and received me with graceful courtesy."
18826,"In childhood I must have felt with the energy of a man what I now find stamped upon memory in lines as vivid, as deep, and as durable as the exergues of the Carthaginian medals."
18827,"dee Hi Hi Randy"" A swaying lantern came around the black bend, and old Benijah pounced on the silent and bewildered form of the pilgrim."
18828,"Had they not, indeed, been intoxicated beyond moral sense, their reeling footsteps must have been palsied by the horrors of their situation."
18829,"The upper part overhung the narrow grass grown street and nearly met the overhanging part of the house opposite, so that I was almost in a tunnel, with the low stone doorstep wholly free from snow."
18830,These words were syllabled trembling by the iron man.
18831,"""And will you promise me, upon your honor, that when this freak of yours is over, and the bug business good God settled to your satisfaction, you will then return home and follow my advice implicitly, as that of your physician?"""
18832,"We forgot that Malcolm and Macduff were mere human beings, acted upon by such simple passions as warmed our own breasts."
18833,"The Rubicon, I felt, was passed; and it behoved me well to reflect what I should do on this hither side of disease and danger."
18834,"The spirit of life seemed to linger in his form, as a dying flame on an altar flickers on the embers of an accepted sacrifice."
18835,"I have indeed ""made history."""
18836,"My mother, when dying, had, in addition to her other half forgotten and misapplied lessons, committed, with solemn exhortation, her other child to my fraternal guardianship; and this one duty I performed to the best of my ability, with all the zeal and affection of which my nature was capable."
18837,"Donning these, he reached for the volume on the table and turned the pages lovingly."
18838,"Accordingly I hid myself in some thick underwood, determining to devote the ensuing hours to reflection on my situation."
18839,"So far, I had not opened my eyes."
18840,"""But proceed I am all impatience."""
18841,"To give to this a better colouring, I had contrived to have assembled a party of some eight or ten, and was solicitously careful that the introduction of cards should appear accidental, and originate in the proposal of my contemplated dupe himself."
18842,"Armitage,"" he said, ""I calc'late I've got to take that book home."
18843,"He held up the curtain of the bed; and his eyes, if eyes they may be called, were fixed on me."
18844,"This, to say the truth, must have cost him no little money, and was made to fit him exceedingly well being fashioned from one of the curiously embroidered silken covers appertaining to those glorious escutcheons which, in England and elsewhere, are customarily hung up, in some conspicuous place, upon the dwellings of departed aristocracy."
18845,"Friends had held him when he drew a stiletto, but West departed amidst his inhuman shrieks, curses, and oaths of vengeance."
18846,You know not what you mean.
18847,That upstairs looks it will have the right cast.
18848,"""Looking about me upon the wide waste of liquid ebony on which we were thus borne, I perceived that our boat was not the only object in the embrace of the whirl."
18849,"Her own attitude toward shadowed Innsmouth which she had never seen was one of disgust at a community slipping far down the cultural scale, and she assured me that the rumours of devil worship were partly justified by a peculiar secret cult which had gained force there and engulfed all the orthodox churches."
18850,"And now, behold, with the first imagination of danger, or, if you will, the first mighty and terrific trial of your courage, you shrink away and are content to be handed down as men who had not strength enough to endure cold and peril; and so, poor souls, they were chilly and returned to their warm firesides."
18851,"The extreme fury of the blast proved, in a great measure, the salvation of the ship."
18852,"Went to the theatre, to look for Gruff."
18853,"Thus I found that my senses would shortly give way altogether, and I had already clutched one of the valve ropes with the view of attempting a descent, when the recollection of the trick I had played the three creditors, and the possible consequences to myself, should I return, operated to deter me for the moment."
18854,"Perdita was to become the pupil, friend and younger sister of Evadne."
18855,"The words were venom in my ears; and when, upon the day of my arrival, a second William Wilson came also to the academy, I felt angry with him for bearing the name, and doubly disgusted with the name because a stranger bore it, who would be the cause of its twofold repetition, who would be constantly in my presence, and whose concerns, in the ordinary routine of the school business, must inevitably, on account of the detestable coincidence, be often confounded with my own."
18856,"It was the best that moderate means could afford, and Harris hastened to move in before the birth of a fifth child which the family expected."
18857,"""Before I come on board your vessel,"" said he, ""will you have the kindness to inform me whither you are bound?"""
18858,"He may have traced it to the chamber; but, under the agitating circumstances which ensued, he could never have re captured it."
18859,Man's yesterday may ne'er be like his morrow; Nought may endure but mutability It was nearly noon when I arrived at the top of the ascent.
18860,"It seemed to me impossible that she could recognise the sound, but she persisted in her assertion till she gained credit with the crowd about."
18861,"I lost no time, however, in calling upon the editor of the ""Lollipop,"" and had the good fortune to find this gentleman at home."
18862,"The port holes were open, and with every sea, which as she lurched, washed her decks, they received whole tons of water."
18863,"From comparatively trivial wickedness I passed, with the stride of a giant, into more than the enormities of an Elah Gabalus."
18864,I knew that much of my route must be visible from the Rowley road.
18865,"It is true, we shall be monsters, cut off from all the world; but on that account we shall be more attached to one another."
18866,"From the East tempestuous winds arose, and chilled me as I crouched on the slab of damp stone which had risen beneath my feet."
18867,"In fact, having once satisfied themselves that no egress could have been made in this quarter, they would naturally bestow here a very cursory examination."
18868,"When first she left her peasant life, and resided with the elegant and cultivated Evadne, the only accomplishment she brought to any perfection was that of painting, for which she had a taste almost amounting to genius."
18869,Its weight was about two ounces.
18870,"All that he now enjoyed would have been devoid of pleasure to him, had it been unparticipated."
18871,"Once I tried to escape from the forest, but as I went farther from the castle the shade grew denser and the air more filled with brooding fear; so that I ran frantically back lest I lose my way in a labyrinth of nighted silence."
18872,"The forehead was high, and very pale, and singularly placid; and the once jetty hair fell partially over it, and overshadowed the hollow temples with innumerable ringlets, now of a vivid yellow, and jarring discordantly, in their fantastic character, with the reigning melancholy of the countenance."
18873,"His accent of bitter scorn thrilled me ""Do not tempt me to speak,"" he continued, ""my words would scare you in an universe of cowards I dare think among the church yard tombs among the victims of His merciless tyranny I dare reproach the Supreme Evil."
18874,"He is Gustaf Johansen, a Norwegian of some intelligence, and had been second mate of the two masted schooner Emma of Auckland, which sailed for Callao February th with a complement of eleven men."
18875,The gamekeepers were more enraged than their lord by my obstinacy.
18876,"I can ill record the flow of language and graceful turns of expression, the wit and easy raillery that gave vigour and influence to his speech."
18877,"Oh, never, never, may I see him again Tomorrow night the same roof may not cover us; he or I must depart."
18878,"His throat was aching inexplicably, and as he struggled to a sitting posture he saw with growing fright that his feet and pajama bottoms were brown with caked mud."
18879,"Destiny was too potent, and her immutable laws had decreed my utter and terrible destruction."
18880,I leaned against a tree to observe them.
18881,"Perpetual fretting at length threw Madame Moritz into a decline, which at first increased her irritability, but she is now at peace for ever."
18882,"No outlet was observed in any portion of its vast extent, and no torch, or other artificial source of light was discernible; yet a flood of intense rays rolled throughout, and bathed the whole in a ghastly and inappropriate splendor."
18883,"What a divine day How happy and serene all nature appears"" Thus Elizabeth endeavoured to divert her thoughts and mine from all reflection upon melancholy subjects."
18884,I have not the slightest fear for the result.
18885,"Elizabeth had caught the scarlet fever; her illness was severe, and she was in the greatest danger."
18886,"There then followed an exhaustive comparison of details, and a moment of really awed silence when both detective and scientist agreed on the virtual identity of the phrase common to two hellish rituals so many worlds of distance apart."
18887,"It was the Sydney Bulletin I have mentioned, for my friend has wide affiliations in all conceivable foreign parts; and the picture was a half tone cut of a hideous stone image almost identical with that which Legrasse had found in the swamp."
18888,"The face was so far turned toward the stage that, for some minutes, I could not obtain a view of it but the form was divine; no other word can sufficiently express its magnificent proportion and even the term ""divine"" seems ridiculously feeble as I write it."
18889,In height I am five feet eleven.
18890,"His wife was, indeed, as she had been represented, a most lovely, and most accomplished woman."
18891,"Upon returning home I went with much directness to a rotting chest in the attic, wherein I found the key which next day unlocked with ease the barrier I had so long stormed in vain."
18892,"I had prized it greatly, yet nevertheless felt a sensation of relief at its disappearance."
18893,"Among the others he saw Professor Warren Rice and Dr. Francis Morgan, men to whom he had told some of his conjectures and misgivings; and these two he motioned to accompany him inside."
18894,"I must suppose the ship to be within the influence of some strong current, or impetuous under tow."
18895,Neither was this species of scepticism likely to be diminished by the character of the life I led at Eton.
18896,"Hidden behind heavy curtains stood the two unfinished figures of Tyché, little touched of late by the sick man and his faithful attendant."
18897,"Thereafter those in the towers and without the walls beheld strange lights on the water, and saw that the grey rock Akurion, which was wont to rear high above it near the shore, was almost submerged."
18898,"Suddenly the urn to which I clung began to tremble, as if sharing my own lethal dizziness; and in another instant my body was plunging downward to I knew not what fate."
18899,Thus would she assuredly act if her darkened eyes opened and she beheld me.
18900,The distance of its bottom from the deck overhead was precisely the same.
18901,"It was in good preservation, having received, apparently, little injury from the convulsion which entombed it."
18902,I had an insistent and unaccountable craving for a sleep whose dreams I should not remember.
18903,"They are almost hidden now in lawless luxuriances of green and guardian shrouds of shadow; but the small paned windows still stare shockingly, as if blinking through a lethal stupor which wards off madness by dulling the memory of unutterable things."
18904,Is not every word an impulse on the air?
18905,"Five years gave a sober certainty to their emotions, though it did not rob them of their etherial nature."
18906,"On a dreary heath bestrewen with stones, among which short grass grew; and here and there a few rushes beside a little pool."
18907,This gate is inserted in the lofty wall; which here appears to cross the river at right angles.
18908,"It was of no remarkable character, and I had seen it frequently before, for it was the property of the family physician; but how came it there, upon my table, and why did I shudder in regarding it?"
18909,"It is not to be supposed that a lady, or gentleman either, has been leading the life of a book worm."
18910,"All Paris is excited by the discovered corpse of Marie, a girl young, beautiful and notorious."
18911,And the organs never would work again.
18912,"He had habitually slept at night beyond the ordinary time, and upon waking would often talk of unknown things in a manner so bizarre as to inspire fear even in the hearts of an unimaginative populace."
18913,"In scrutinizing the edges of the paper, I observed them to be more chafed than seemed necessary."
18914,"Fearing to give me pain, she hid as best she could the excess of her wretchedness, but meeting thus her brother after a long absence, she could not restrain the expression of her woe, but with all the vividness of imagination with which misery is always replete, she poured out the emotions of her heart to her beloved and sympathizing Adrian."
18915,"These men indeed went to the lake to view Sarnath; but though they found the vast still lake itself, and the grey rock Akurion which rears high above it near the shore, they beheld not the wonder of the world and pride of all mankind."
18916,"""I have written myself into better spirits, dear cousin; but my anxiety returns upon me as I conclude."
18917,"Yet, for a wild moment, did my spirit refuse to comprehend the meaning of what I saw."
18918,Whole body dreadfully bruised and discolored.
18919,"Were they the same waters of love, which, lately cold and cutting as ice, repelling as that, now loosened from their frozen chains, flowed through the regions of her soul in gushing and grateful exuberance?"
18920,"forbear that is sufficient we see, very plainly, how it is done hold hold"" and several persons were already leaping from their seats to withhold Ma'm'selle Salsafette from putting herself upon a par with the Medicean Venus, when the point was very effectually and suddenly accomplished by a series of loud screams, or yells, from some portion of the main body of the chateau."
18921,"Klenze seemed very nervous, and drank heavily."
18922,Why then give a date to this story I have to tell?
18923,I waited for some explanation from Dupin.
18924,"To relieve this, Dr. Templeton resorted to topical bleeding."
18925,"Monsieur Le Blanc was unable to account for her absence, and Madame Rogêt was distracted with anxiety and terror."
18926,"I say, this occasioned me no little amazement; for I well remember that, in a former conversation with a friend, I particularly inquired if he had at any time met in London the Marchesa di Mentoni, who for some years previous to her marriage had resided in that city, when his answer, if I mistake not, gave me to understand that he had never visited the metropolis of Great Britain."
18927,These are the words that it contained.
18928,"You did say that ""divested of corporate investiture man were God."" V."
18929,"He consoles himself, however, that he has not been such a fool as to leave the goods without the money, and re entering his shop with a self satisfied air, feels sensibly hurt and indignant when his master asks him what has become of the change."
18930,"He has committed an ignoratio elenchi that is to say, he has understood the words of your proposition, but not the idea."
18931,"With these materials and with the aid of my trowel, I began vigorously to wall up the entrance of the niche."
18932,"Had but little difficulty in getting it open, on account of its being a double or folding gate, and bolted neither at bottom not top."
18933,A mixture of pure art in a garden scene adds to it a great beauty.
18934,Many were quite awry.
18935,"For one brief interval before this catastrophe, he looked forward to the future, and contemplated with anguish the desolate situation in which his wife and children would be left."
18936,Think you that the groans of Clerval were music to my ears?
18937,"Why are there fruits, or flowers, or streams, man is not here to enjoy them?"
18938,"For a moment I was inclined to use persuasion, regarding rather lightly the whims of senility; and even tried to awaken my host's weirder mood by whistling a few of the strains to which I had listened the night before."
18939,"Without, however, taking offence at behaviour so excessively rude, the tall president smiled very graciously upon the intruders nodded to them in a dignified manner with his head of sable plumes and, arising, took each by an arm, and led him to a seat which some others of the company had placed in the meantime for his accommodation."
18940,"Several new kinds of plants sprang up in the garden, which they dressed; and these signs of comfort increased daily as the season advanced."
18941,"Curiosity flared up beyond sense and caution, and in my youthful egotism I fancied I might be able to sift a nucleus of real history from the confused, extravagant outpouring I would probably extract with the aid of raw whiskey."
18942,"The date, I may thus say, in regard to the remoteness of its antiquity, cannot be less than any assignable quantity whatsoever."
18943,"He led me out of that tangle of alleys in another direction, it seems, for when we sighted a lamp post we were in a half familiar street with monotonous rows of mingled tenement blocks and old houses."
18944,He had bow legs and was corpulent.
18945,"I had gazed on him while unfinished; he was ugly then, but when those muscles and joints were rendered capable of motion, it became a thing such as even Dante could not have conceived."
18946,"After a while, I heard the voice of an old Swede, who had shipped with us at the moment of our leaving port."
18947,"The disease which had thus entombed the lady in the maturity of youth, had left, as usual in all maladies of a strictly cataleptical character, the mockery of a faint blush upon the bosom and the face, and that suspiciously lingering smile upon the lip which is so terrible in death."
18948,"The boat, nevertheless, glides magically into the winding channel; and here the shore opposite the wall is found to resemble that opposite the wall in the straight vista."
18949,"Two Lascar sailors at once helped him to his feet, but before the ambulance could reach him he was dead."
18950,"Mr. Goldsmith, a little Man very vain of his Dress and very deficient in Brilliancy of Conversation, was my particular Favourite; since I was equally unable to shine in the Discourse."
18951,"His madness, or at least his partial perversion, seemed beyond dispute."
18952,"As for the Quarterly cant about ""sustained effort,"" it is impossible to see the sense of it."
18953,They were loud loud as the rumblings and the thunder above which they echoed yet did they come from no visible being.
18954,"Then, as if pursued by an enemy, as if wings had been at her feet, she flew to her own apartment, she dismissed her attendants, she locked the doors, she threw herself wildly on the floor, she bit her lips even to blood to suppress her shrieks, and lay long a prey to the vulture of despair, striving not to think, while multitudinous ideas made a home of her heart; and ideas, horrid as furies, cruel as vipers, and poured in with such swift succession, that they seemed to jostle and wound each other, while they worked her up to madness."
18955,"Thomas"" turning to me ""is decidedly the best hand at a cork leg; but if you should ever want an arm, my dear fellow, you must really let me recommend you to Bishop."""
18956,"The tenant adjoining him complained of the icy air from around the connecting door, so I helped him fit heavy hangings to obviate the difficulty."
18957,"No unguided footstep ever came upon that vale; for it lay away up among a range of giant hills that hung beetling around about it, shutting out the sunlight from its sweetest recesses."
18958,"But this cannot be thought a very ""acute"" observation of the Doctor's."
18959,"He had been somewhere he ought not to be; had strayed very far away to places where he had not belonged, and was now inexcusably late."
18960,"We found him just about to embark in his boat, and he readily agreed to receive us as companions."
18961,"It is not by flying, but by facing the enemy, that we can conquer."
18962,The bishop was last to go.
18963,"But here the voyager quits the vessel which has borne him so far, and descends into a light canoe of ivory, stained with arabesque devices in vivid scarlet, both within and without."
18964,"An officer bent reluctantly over the loathsome glassy eyed form and found the tissue wrapped cardboard, which he passed around among the others."
18965,"The floor of the forest was mossy and mysterious, and great lichened rocks rose vaguely here and there in the dim light like Druid monoliths among the swollen and twisted trunks of a sacred grove."
18966,"Then, bolder than the storied Cyclops, great Cthulhu slid greasily into the water and began to pursue with vast wave raising strokes of cosmic potency."
18967,"Alas, how great was the contrast between us He was alive to every new scene, joyful when he saw the beauties of the setting sun, and more happy when he beheld it rise and recommence a new day."
18968,"""I am alive,"" were the uncomprehended words which, upon recognizing the locality of the dissecting room, he had endeavored, in his extremity, to utter."
18969,"Again he thought, how during this long month, he had avoided Perdita, flying from her as from the stings of his own conscience."
18970,The opposite mountain is a bare perpendicular rock.
18971,"Ages perhaps had elapsed since this catastrophe; and the ruin it had made above, had been repaired by the growth of vegetation during many hundred summers."
18972,"But it has been shown that, in the inorganic life, pain cannot be thus the necessity for the organic."
18973,"On the source of Slater's visions they speculated at length, for since he could neither read nor write, and had apparently never heard a legend or fairy tale, his gorgeous imagery was quite inexplicable."
18974,"His body is situated behind the dense machinery in cupboard No. T. the rear portion of which machinery is so contrived as to slip en masse, from the main compartment to the cupboard No. I, as occasion may require, and his legs lie at full length in the main compartment."
18975,These were carefully removed and searched.
18976,"O, yes, it would Countrymen, fear not In the still uncultivated wilds of America, what wonder that among its other giant destroyers, Plague should be numbered It is of old a native of the East, sister of the tornado, the earthquake, and the simoon."
18977,"From its machicolated parapets and mounted battlements Barons, Counts, and even Kings had been defied, yet never had its spacious halls resounded to the footsteps of the invader."
18978,"I had risen mechanically my knees trembled; irresolution hung on my voice, as I uttered a few words on the necessity of choosing a person adequate to the dangerous task in hand."
18979,"As I turned the promontory I perceived a small neat town and a good harbour, which I entered, my heart bounding with joy at my unexpected escape."
18980,"The deductions from the premises are philosophical and acute; but the premises, in two instances, at least, are founded in imperfect observation."
18981,The dress was much torn and otherwise disordered.
18982,I could now almost fancy myself among the Swiss mountains.
18983,"With regard to myself, this came almost by inheritance."
18984,"I gave several hours to the serious consideration of this difficulty, but I was obliged to relinquish all attempt to supply it, and wrapping myself up in my cloak, I struck across the wood towards the setting sun."
18985,"No man can tell there is no refuge on earth, it comes on us like a thousand packs of wolves we must all fly where shall you go?"
18986,"""Butt end ram down my eye"" ""O yes, by the by, my eye here, Pompey, you scamp, screw it in Those Kickapoos are not so very slow at a gouge; but he's a belied man, that Dr. Williams, after all; you can't imagine how well I see with the eyes of his make."""
18987,"It was dawn, and she quitted her asylum, that she might again endeavour to find my brother."
18988,"I had completed the eighth, the ninth, and the tenth tier."
18989,"To one entering the room, they bore the appearance of simple monstrosities; but upon a farther advance, this appearance gradually departed; and step by step, as the visitor moved his station in the chamber, he saw himself surrounded by an endless succession of the ghastly forms which belong to the superstition of the Norman, or arise in the guilty slumbers of the monk."
18990,"I had become most unaccountably interested nay, even excited."
18991,"So you see he would have been a very profound old man, indeed, to suspect that every night, just at twelve, I looked in upon him while he slept."
18992,I who sought and had found joy in the love breathing countenance of my father now when I dared fix on him a supplicating look it was ever answered by an angry frown.
18993,"And they say that the Terrible Old Man talks to these bottles, addressing them by such names as Jack, Scar Face, Long Tom, Spanish Joe, Peters, and Mate Ellis, and that whenever he speaks to a bottle the little lead pendulum within makes certain definite vibrations as if in answer."
18994,"She then bade him, with the eloquence of despair and of unalterable love, a last farewell."
18995,"To call up the people of the inn, and obtain a conveyance and horses, even though I harnessed them myself, was the work of many minutes; minutes, each freighted with the weight of ages."
18996,"Oh How unlike it was to the blue seasons of the south Covered with ice, it was only to be distinguished from land by its superior wildness and ruggedness."
18997,A reply rejoinder confutation and justification followed in the columns of a Democratic Gazette.
18998,"Again there is a sound as of a human voice, but hoarser; it comes from the cabin where the remains of Frankenstein still lie."
18999,"It's well above water a good part of the time, and never much below it, but at that you could hardly call it an island."
19000,"This matter of the spectral piping harassed me greatly, and I wondered if the crickets of autumn had come before their time to vex the night and haunt the visions of men."
19001,"It contained, when afloat, the captain and his wife, Mr. Wyatt and party, a Mexican officer, wife, four children, and myself, with a negro valet."
19002,"He left the hotel before me, intending to go to New York, and thence to Bremen; it was in the latter city that his great discovery was first made public; or, rather, it was there that he was first suspected of having made it."
19003,I think I was paralysed for an instant.
19004,"And out of this melancholy water arose a forest of tall eastern trees, like a wilderness of dreams."
19005,"Late we envied their abodes, their spicy groves, fertile plains, and abundant loveliness."
19006,"What would happen on reanimation, and whether we could hope for a revival of mind and reason, West did not venture to predict."
19007,Obed finally got her married off by a trick to an Arkham feller as didn't suspect nothin'.
19008,The waters give up no voice to the heavens.
19009,"This, it must be remembered, was in the broad light of day."
19010,"Depart to your home and commence your labours; I shall watch their progress with unutterable anxiety; and fear not but that when you are ready I shall appear."""
19011,"Like these arabesque censers, my spirit is writhing in fire, and the delirium of this scene is fashioning me for the wilder visions of that land of real dreams whither I am now rapidly departing."""
19012,"His gentleness was never tinged by dogmatism, and his instructions were given with an air of frankness and good nature that banished every idea of pedantry."
19013,"I told him, he shou'd not try to pasquinade the Source of his sy."
19014,"Having satisfied her curiosity if such it was she dropped the glass, and quietly gave her attention again to the stage; her profile now being turned toward myself, as before."
19015,"""It was about seven in the morning, and I longed to obtain food and shelter; at length I perceived a small hut, on a rising ground, which had doubtless been built for the convenience of some shepherd."
19016,"""The pleasant showers and genial warmth of spring greatly altered the aspect of the earth."
19017,"Galpin now devoted his time to the library and lecture platform, preparing volumes and speeches on various subjects connected with belles lettres, and always shewing a genius so remarkable that it seemed as if the public must sometime pardon him for his past mistakes."
19018,"Wealthy beyond the necessity of a commercial life, and temperamentally unfitted for the formal studies and social recreations of my acquaintances, I have dwelt ever in realms apart from the visible world; spending my youth and adolescence in ancient and little known books, and in roaming the fields and groves of the region near my ancestral home."
19019,"Twice I actually hired myself as an under mate in a Greenland whaler, and acquitted myself to admiration."
19020,"The hunger of Death was now stung more sharply by the diminution of his food: or was it that before, the survivors being many, the dead were less eagerly counted?"
19021,"At length these obnoxious visits suddenly ceased altogether, but from that moment I must date the change of my father: a change that to remember makes me shudder and then filled me with the deepest grief."
19022,"O' course them as sarved on the Sumatry Queen an' seed the island knowed what he meant, an' wa'n't none too anxious to git clost to sea things like they'd heerd tell on, but them as didn't know what 'twas all abaout got kind o' swayed by what Obed had to say, an' begun to ast him what he cud do to set 'em on the way to the faith as ud bring 'em results."""
19023,Total annihilation could be no more.
19024,"The lips were gently protruded, and rested the one upon the other, after such a fashion that it is impossible to conceive any, even the most complex, combination of human features, conveying so entirely, and so singly, the idea of unmitigated gravity, solemnity and repose."
19025,"That was why, when establishing his practice in Bolton, he had chosen an isolated house near the potter's field."
19026,"My frantic running ceased before I had covered a block, for at my left I began to hear something like the hue and cry of organised pursuit."
19027,"He had been accustomed, however, to quiet the creature, even in its fiercest moods, by the use of a whip, and to this he now resorted."
19028,That same night saw the beginning of the second Arkham horror the horror that to me eclipsed the plague itself.
19029,"""It took Obed to git the truth aout o' them heathen."
19030,"But the walks of Marie may, in general, be supposed discursive."
19031,"It was now midnight, and my task was drawing to a close."
19032,"Were the Automaton life like in its motions, the spectator would be more apt to attribute its operations to their true cause, that is, to human agency within than he is now, when the awkward and rectangular manoeuvres convey the idea of pure and unaided mechanism. ."
19033,"But I must first render you all the little attentions in my power."""
19034,"But as the Baron listened, or affected to listen, to the gradually increasing uproar in the stables of Berlifitzing or perhaps pondered upon some more novel, some more decided act of audacity his eyes became unwittingly rivetted to the figure of an enormous, and unnaturally colored horse, represented in the tapestry as belonging to a Saracen ancestor of the family of his rival."
19035,"Methought the charm would be broken if I were seen, but I heard the music of her voice and was happy."
19036,"Why, otherwise, since it was about dusk, should she make a point of the haste?"
19037,"The matter stands thus: In the first place your writer of intensities must have very black ink, and a very big pen, with a very blunt nib."
19038,"By the time that she had with uneasy thoughts laid her fair cheek upon her pillow, her mother's servant brought a draught; a suspicion again crossed her at this novel proceeding, sufficiently alarming to determine her not to take the potion; but dislike of contention, and a wish to discover whether there was any just foundation for her conjectures, made her, she said, almost instinctively, and in contradiction to her usual frankness, pretend to swallow the medicine."
19039,"The mystery remains unsolved to this day, though the image is on exhibition at the museum of Miskatonic University."
19040,"For months I could not rid myself of the phantasm of the cat; and, during this period, there came back into my spirit a half sentiment that seemed, but was not, remorse."
19041,"They said something about a ""psychosis"", and agreed I had better get any harassing obsessions off my mind."
19042,"Aira's beauty is past imagining, and none can tell of it without rapture, whilst of Oonai the camel drivers whisper leeringly."""
19043,"And evil was the hour when she saw, and loved, and wedded the painter."
19044,"""By the time I had fully completed these arrangements and filled the chamber as explained, it wanted only ten minutes of nine o'clock."
19045,"Besides I could not extract from my memory that hideous, inhuman shriek we heard on the night we tried our first experiment in the deserted farmhouse at Arkham."
19046,The principle expressed is incontrovertible but there may be something beyond it.
19047,To queries put to him by any other person than myself he seemed utterly insensible although I endeavored to place each member of the company in mesmeric rapport with him.
19048,"Thou holdest the keys of the frost, and canst first chain and then set free the streams; under thy gentle governance the buds and leaves are born, they flourish nursed by thee."
19049,"And then I recall how I laughed when I stumbled on the passageway; the hole at the base of the old chimney, where the thick weeds grew and cast queer shadows in the light of the lone candle I had happened to have with me."
19050,"They are to be found in Crebillon's 'Atrée.'"""
19051,In this way it was possible to insert the whole upper part of the bag between the net work and the hoop.
19052,"I still lay quietly, and made effort to exercise my reason."
19053,"Then one night the red and fattened Romnod snorted heavily amidst the poppied silks of his banquet couch and died writhing, whilst Iranon, pale and slender, sang to himself in a far corner."
19054,"It was the ultimate product of mammalian degeneration; the frightful outcome of isolated spawning, multiplication, and cannibal nutrition above and below the ground; the embodiment of all the snarling chaos and grinning fear that lurk behind life."
19055,"A spark appeared on the moor, a flame arose, and a pillar of human fire reached to the heavens."
19056,During her illness many arguments had been urged to persuade my mother to refrain from attending upon her.
19057,She sought to improve her understanding; mechanically her heart and dispositions became soft and gentle under this benign discipline.
19058,"Of Gerrit Martense's descendants less is known than of himself; since they were all reared in hatred of the English civilisation, and trained to shun such of the colonists as accepted it."
19059,"Let the day therefore be fixed; and on it I will consecrate myself, in life or death, to the happiness of my cousin."""
19060,It was the portrait of a young girl just ripening into womanhood.
19061,"This change made us only the more sensible to the delights of the intimate intercourse of our own circle, the tranquillity of our divine forest, and our happy evenings in the halls of our beloved Castle."
19062,"A south west wind brought up rain the sun came out, and mocking the usual laws of nature, seemed even at this early season to burn with solsticial force."
19063,Had he not told his colleagues to be as gentle as possible with the pathetic old sea captain?
19064,"To me their interest depended less on this circumstance than on the peculiarly appropriate way in which they dovetailed with certain other things the complaint of the departing servant Preserved Smith, who had preceded Ann and never heard of her, that something ""sucked his breath"" at night; the death certificates of fever victims of , issued by Dr. Chad Hopkins, and shewing the four deceased persons all unaccountably lacking in blood; and the obscure passages of poor Rhoby Harris's ravings, where she complained of the sharp teeth of a glassy eyed, half visible presence."
19065,"Some of the items were delicate and inspiring enough, but there was one box of strange old pieces descended from my mysterious great grandmother which my uncle was almost reluctant to produce."
19066,The boys heard with childish glee of our removal: Clara asked if we were to go to Athens.
19067,"Grandson of Captain Obed Marsh, who founded the business."
19068,"I had been awake the whole of the preceding night, my nerves were agitated, and my eyes inflamed by watching and misery."
19069,We remained for the night at Luton.
19070,"On my asking him what he thought of my favourable Notice of his Dictionary in The Londoner, my periodical Paper, he said: ""Sir, I possess no Recollection of having perus'd your Paper, and have not a great Interest in the Opinions of the less thoughtful Part of Mankind."""
19071,"Proprieties of place, and especially of time, are the bugbears which terrify mankind from the contemplation of the magnificent."
19072,"""A thousand pounds,"" said I. ""Do you warrant it?"" he asked, turning the nose to the light."
19073,"Upon the death of Theodoric in , Ibidus retired from public life to compose his celebrated work whose pure Ciceronian style is as remarkable a case of classic atavism as is the verse of Claudius Claudianus, who flourished a century before Ibidus; but he was later recalled to scenes of pomp to act as court rhetorician for Theodatus, nephew of Theodoric."
19074,It might have a vapory it might even have a tangible form.
19075,"I resolved to visit London, to see him; to quiet these agonizing throes by the sweet medicine of hope, or the opiate of despair."
19076,"""If you please, uncle precisely."""
19077,He had indeed come back to the Valley of Ooth Nargai and the splendid city of Celephaïs.
19078,The stranger has gradually improved in health but is very silent and appears uneasy when anyone except myself enters his cabin.
19079,"It was a simple, rambling thing a naive sailor's effort at a post facto diary and strove to recall day by day that last awful voyage."
19080,"And because mere walls and windows must soon drive to madness a man who dreams and reads much, the dweller in that room used night after night to lean out and peer aloft to glimpse some fragment of things beyond the waking world and the greyness of tall cities."
19081,"I ate my breakfast with pleasure and was about to remove a plank to procure myself a little water when I heard a step, and looking through a small chink, I beheld a young creature, with a pail on her head, passing before my hovel."
19082,"His very horse seemed to back from the fatal entrance; his dog, his faithful dog, lay moaning and supplicating in his path in a moment more, he had plunged the rowels into the sides of the stung animal, who bounded forward, and he, the gateway passed, was galloping up the broad and desart street."
19083,"Convinced myself, I seek not to convince."
19084,Perdita was all sufficient to herself.
19085,"Had it been possible to adduce fifty instead of five examples of bodies found floating at the end of two or three days, these fifty examples could still have been properly regarded only as exceptions to L'Etoile's rule, until such time as the rule itself should be confuted."
19086,"De L'Omelette pressed his hand upon his heart, closed his eyes, raised them, and caught his Satanic Majesty in a blush."
19087,"Having strown it with fir boughs, all now rested on it with drawn automatics, two relaxing while the third watched."
19088,"I might be said even to love my enemies, since by exciting me they in a sort bestowed happiness upon me; Perdita almost disliked her friends, for they interfered with her visionary moods."
19089,"I expressed a wish to visit England, but concealing the true reasons of this request, I clothed my desires under a guise which excited no suspicion, while I urged my desire with an earnestness that easily induced my father to comply."
19090,"""As soon as the balloon quits the earth, it is subjected to the influence of many circumstances tending to create a difference in its weight; augmenting or diminishing its ascending power."
19091,The sun does not more certainly shine in the heavens than that which I now affirm is true.
19092,"Combining with taste her remembrance of the edifices which she had seen in the east, and by an effort of genius enduing them with unity of design, she executed the plan which had been sent to the Protector."
19093,"They found Gilman on the floor of his queerly angled old garret room long before dawn, for the terrible cry had brought Desrochers and Choynski and Dombrowski and Mazurewicz at once, and had even wakened the soundly sleeping Elwood in his chair."
19094,There are two bodies the rudimental and the complete; corresponding with the two conditions of the worm and the butterfly.
19095,Now this is the point.
19096,"One seeks to recall the original beauty of the country, by adapting its means to the surrounding scenery; cultivating trees in harmony with the hills or plain of the neighboring land; detecting and bringing into practice those nice relations of size, proportion and color which, hid from the common observer, are revealed everywhere to the experienced student of nature."
19097,Then I noticed that I was not alone in the room and put the ray projector back in my pocket.
19098,I guess I done a bit by tellin' Selectman Mowry what I see from the cupalo.
19099,"Voices began questioning Armitage about what he knew of the thing, and no reply seemed quite to satisfy."
19100,"In the early evening we rose to the surface, and found the sea less heavy."
19101,"I asked him, if he had ever seen among the troops any one resembling her; if since he had returned to Greece he had heard of her?"
19102,I had to tell Harris because he owned the house and deserved to know what had gone out of it.
19103,"A huge bucket with water stood at one extremity of the room, and a clock of stupendous dimensions at the other."
19104,"It was the pursuit, the extension of the idea, which had engendered awe."
19105,"It was the Yuletide, that men call Christmas though they know in their hearts it is older than Bethlehem and Babylon, older than Memphis and mankind."
19106,But your direction was northwards.
19107,"Such places have strange properties, and the legacy of insane legend might well have acted on more than one human imagination amidst those dead, stench cursed streets and huddles of rotting roofs and crumbling steeples."
19108,"It will have been, by that time, totally destroyed, at three different periods, by three successive earthquakes."
19109,"Believing him just conscious after a fainting fit, I renewed my rapping, at the same time calling out my name reassuringly."
19110,"Now, in my intense desire to probe into the dream life of Joe Slater, I sought these instruments again; and spent several days in repairing them for action."
19111,Let not these aspirations be attributed to vanity.
19112,Yet I must believe that my first mental development had in it much of the uncommon even much of the outre.
19113,"Yes, that was the thing."
19114,I resolved to be guided by the paternal advice.
19115,"You had mentioned Geneva as the name of your native town, and towards this place I resolved to proceed."
19116,"Adrian took pity on my faltering mien: ""Come with me,"" he said, ""I have much to say to you; come home with me you know who I am?"" ""Yes,"" I exclaimed, ""I do believe that I now know you, and that you will pardon my mistakes my crime."""
19117,"The diddler is not only surprised but vexed and incensed at the absurd behavior of his dog, and expresses his entire readiness to cancel the obligation at any moment when the evidence of the obligation shall be forthcoming."
19118,"The antagonist having taken his seat, the exhibiter approaches the drawer of the box, and takes therefrom the cushion, which, after removing the pipe from the hand of the Automaton, he places under its left arm as a support."
19119,"The figure, almost all of which the construction of the box permitted to be seen, was somewhat above the medium height, and nearly approached, without positively reaching, the majestic."
19120,"""Why do you call to my remembrance,"" I rejoined, ""circumstances of which I shudder to reflect, that I have been the miserable origin and author?"
19121,"Occupying the whole southern face of the pentagon was the sole window an immense sheet of unbroken glass from Venice a single pane, and tinted of a leaden hue, so that the rays of either the sun or moon, passing through it, fell with a ghastly lustre on the objects within."
19122,Burke's Reflections on the French Revolution.
19123,"His fit, nevertheless, finally subsided as before, and he began to act and speak in a rational way."
19124,Was my love blamable?
19125,"My pets, of course, were made to feel the change in my disposition."
19126,"This I have long seen, and therefore had thoughts of making you a lawyer."
19127,You saw the locks in question as well as myself.
19128,We looked at the picture which he presented.
19129,"He shook with inconceivable agitation, and his eye glanced around in search of a gondola."
19130,But now also I began to reap the fruits of my perfect solitude.
19131,"When, at length, we had concluded our examination, and the intense excitement of the time had, in some measure, subsided, Legrand, who saw that I was dying with impatience for a solution of this most extraordinary riddle, entered into a full detail of all the circumstances connected with it."
19132,"Sometimes you may be stung with the feeling that you have wronged me, but the condolence of your relatives, the pity of the world, the complacency which the consciousness of your own immaculate innocence will bestow, will be excellent balm; me you will never see more"" Raymond moved towards the door."
19133,"""What is the meaning of all this, Jup?"" I inquired."
19134,"The soil was barren, scarcely affording pasture for a few miserable cows, and oatmeal for its inhabitants, which consisted of five persons, whose gaunt and scraggy limbs gave tokens of their miserable fare."
19135,"Sometimes she looked at Raymond, as if to say That it should be so At others her countenance expressed I will still do all I can to make you happy."
19136,"Every one remarked her exhilaration of spirits; as all actions appear graceful in the eye of rank, her guests surrounded her applaudingly, although there was a sharpness in her laugh, and an abruptness in her sallies, which might have betrayed her secret to an attentive observer."
19137,"One night as I listened to the discourse in the large square containing many statues, I felt a change; and perceived that I had at last a bodily form."
19138,"For some minutes he remained speechless and motionless, looking incredulously at my friend with open mouth, and eyes that seemed starting from their sockets; then, apparently recovering himself in some measure, he seized a pen, and after several pauses and vacant stares, finally filled up and signed a check for fifty thousand francs, and handed it across the table to Dupin."
19139,"So when I had finished reading I shook my host by the hand, and departed as a friend."
19140,"Ten thousand years ago there stood by its shore the mighty city of Sarnath, but Sarnath stands there no more."
19141,"From what I have already said, you must know that I have had means of information about this matter means of which you could never have dreamed."
19142,"The air of death and desertion was ghoulish, and the smell of fish almost insufferable; but I was resolved to let nothing deter me."
19143,"The thing was done, and I put money in my purse."
19144,"But these principles cannot be extended to the human organization, wherein there is a marked and radical difference in the construction, and, at all events, in the powers, of the right and left arms."
19145,"He wrote to the address given, desiring to see the draughtsman, that such alterations might be made, as should be suggested in a consultation between him and the original conceiver."
19146,"For a long time they had reigned over the city together, but when they had a son all three went away."
19147,The interior of the main compartment is lined throughout with cloth.
19148,"Yes, divinity of the world, I read your characters in her looks and gesture; I heard your melodious voice echoed by her you prepared for us a soft and flowery path, all gentle thoughts adorned it your name, O Love, was not spoken, but you stood the Genius of the Hour, veiled, and time, but no mortal hand, might raise the curtain."
19149,"I asked, ""Does Lady Idris love you?"" ""What a question,"" replied he laughing."
19150,In the meantime every moment threatened to be our last every mountainous billow hurried to overwhelm us.
19151,I had sagacity enough to discover that the unnatural hideousness of my person was the chief object of horror with those who had formerly beheld me.
19152,"Sometimes they appeared to devour one another, the attacker launching itself at its victim and instantaneously obliterating the latter from sight."
19153,Elizabeth alone had the power to draw me from these fits; her gentle voice would soothe me when transported by passion and inspire me with human feelings when sunk in torpor.
19154,"""The old man had, in the meantime, been pensive, but on the appearance of his companions he assumed a more cheerful air, and they sat down to eat."
19155,"He strove to shelter her, as a fair exotic is sheltered by the gardener, from every rougher wind and to surround her with all that could tend to excite pleasurable emotion in her soft and benevolent mind."
19156,This I know to be a fact.
19157,"At length we arrived at the harbour; it was agitated by the outward swell of the sea; the beach, as far could be discerned, was covered by a moving multitude, which, urged by those behind toward the sea, again rushed back as the heavy waves with sullen roar burst close to them."
19158,You perhaps will find some means to justify my poor guiltless Justine.
19159,I think I went mad then.
19160,"Although her disposition was gay and in many respects inconsiderate, yet she paid the greatest attention to every gesture of my aunt."
19161,"The verses, which were entitled ""The Haunted Palace,"" ran very nearly, if not accurately, thus: I."
19162,"I may die, but in death I can never forget or desert my own Clara."
19163,"Farther than this, little could be ascertained."
19164,There was no servant that was a settled point.
19165,"As my authorship increased, I acquired new sympathies and pleasures."
19166,"The shutters had been thrown back, and with a sensation of horror not to be described, I saw at the open window a figure the most hideous and abhorred."
19167,"Altogether, Old Bugs was not pleasing to look upon."
19168,"Although I thus readily accounted to my reason, if not altogether to my conscience, for the startling fact just detailed, it did not the less fail to make a deep impression upon my fancy."
19169,Neither could I forget what I had read of these pits that the sudden extinction of life formed no part of their most horrible plan.
19170,"It had four inch horns, but a face and jaw something like yours and mine."""
19171,This appearance excited our unqualified wonder.
19172,"One player holds in his hand a number of these toys, and demands of another whether that number is even or odd."
19173,"It appears that about a hundred years before Mr. Ellison's coming of age, there had died, in a remote province, one Mr. Seabright Ellison."
19174,But even here there was very little upon which to base a conjecture.
19175,"He would have used this, but for its volution about the corpse, the hitch which embarrassed it, and the reflection that it had not been 'torn off' from the garment."
19176,"Oh, that some encouraging voice would answer in the affirmative My courage and my resolution is firm; but my hopes fluctuate, and my spirits are often depressed."
19177,"To their Excellencies Von Underduk and Rub a dub, President and Vice President of the States' College of Astronomers, in the city of Rotterdam."
19178,"Gilman tried to stop up the rat hole every day, but each night the real tenants of the partitions would gnaw away the obstruction, whatever it might be."
19179,"There was nothing in this, however, to make him sob."
19180,"He is fond of enigmas, of conundrums, of hieroglyphics; exhibiting in his solutions of each a degree of acumen which appears to the ordinary apprehension præternatural."
19181,"The moon could not be seen at all, being nearly in my zenith."
19182,"For a time Mercy could secure no more help, since the seven deaths and case of madness, all occurring within five years' space, had begun to set in motion the body of fireside rumour which later became so bizarre."
19183,"He wrote this in a very ancient hand, and when I still hesitated he pulled from his loose robe a seal ring and a watch, both with my family arms, to prove that he was what he said."
19184,"This time the creaking went along the hall and down the stairs, so I knew that the prowler had realised the bolted condition of my doors and was giving up his attempt for a greater or lesser time, as the future would shew."
19185,"Condescend therefore to have patience with my ignorance, and to explain your wishes to me; in time I am certain that you will be satisfied."""
19186,Interest: Your diddler is guided by self interest.
19187,"Here Mr. Crab again ""made great eyes,"" as we say in Germany, but at length, recovering himself from a profound attack of astonishment, he assured me that he employed the words ""Thomas Hawk"" to avoid the colloquialism, Tommy, which was low but that the true idea was Tommy Hawk or tomahawk and that by ""playing tomahawk"" he referred to scalping, brow beating and otherwise using up the herd of poor devil authors."
19188,"Having rapidly taken notice of all this, I resumed the narrative of Sir Launcelot, which thus proceeded: ""And now, the champion, having escaped from the terrible fury of the dragon, bethinking himself of the brazen shield, and of the breaking up of the enchantment which was upon it, removed the carcass from out of the way before him, and approached valorously over the silver pavement of the castle to where the shield was upon the wall; which in sooth tarried not for his full coming, but feel down at his feet upon the silver floor, with a mighty great and terrible ringing sound."""
19189,You'll never know what the world has escaped.
19190,"It was as though a house, launched by an avalanche, had slid down through the tangled growths of the almost vertical slope."
19191,"It was quite dirty, you remember."
19192,"There was no ship visible, as I had half expected there would be."
19193,"The hand writing itself was exquisitely beautiful; there was something in her very paper and its folds, which even I, who did not love, and was withal unskilled in such matters, could discern as being tasteful."
19194,"It was seen that, even at three per cent., the annual income of the inheritance amounted to no less than thirteen millions and five hundred thousand dollars; which was one million and one hundred and twenty five thousand per month; or thirty six thousand nine hundred and eighty six per day; or one thousand five hundred and forty one per hour; or six and twenty dollars for every minute that flew."
19195,"There have been other ""voyages to the moon,"" but none of higher merit than the one just mentioned."
19196,"Presently a window opens, and somebody pitches you a sixpence, with a request to ""Hush up and go on,"" etc."
19197,"The stowage was clumsily done, and the vessel consequently crank."
19198,"When he came to himself, we addressed ourselves again to an investigation of M. Valdemar's condition."
19199,"Yet it is in your power to recompense me, and deliver them from an evil which it only remains for you to make so great, that not only you and your family, but thousands of others, shall be swallowed up in the whirlwinds of its rage."
19200,"And inside that rusted iron strait jacket lurked gibbering hideousness, perversion, and diabolism."
19201,"For the people of Ulthar were simple, and knew not whence it is all cats first came."
19202,"I replied that I was going to Arkham, and apologised for my rude entry into his domicile, whereupon he continued."
19203,Captain Smitherton says that yesterday was Sunday: so it was; he is right.
19204,"He did every thing I wished, and I found, upon getting up, that I could easily pass my head and neck through the aperture."
19205,"I have sought in vain for sleep and rest; my lids refused to close, and my blood was for ever in a tumult."
19206,"Upon the first discovery of the corpse, it was not supposed that the murderer would be able to elude, for more than a very brief period, the inquisition which was immediately set on foot."
19207,"There in the moonlight that flooded the spacious plain was a spectacle which no mortal, having seen it, could ever forget."
19208,I determined to hazard a few words of conversation.
19209,The body was quite warm.
19210,"When my father returned from Milan, he found playing with me in the hall of our villa a child fairer than pictured cherub a creature who seemed to shed radiance from her looks and whose form and motions were lighter than the chamois of the hills."
19211,"Turning to the passage specified, he read it with great care to himself, then closed the book, and desired me, in my character of confidential acquaintance, to express to the Baron von Jung his exalted sense of his chivalrous behavior, and, in that of second, to assure him that the explanation offered was of the fullest, the most honorable, and the most unequivocally satisfactory nature."
19212,"All these things, however, the Elder Ones only may decide; and meanwhile the morning mist still comes up by that lonely vertiginous peak with the steep ancient house, that grey low eaved house where none is seen but where evening brings furtive lights while the north wind tells of strange revels."
19213,"As we rode up to the gate way, I perceived it slightly open, and the visage of a man peering through."
19214,"Perdita, even where she loved, was reserved and timid; Idris was frank and confiding."
19215,"As I arose from the attempt, the mystery of the alteration in the chamber broke at once upon my understanding."
19216,How had I deserved to be so blessed by such confessions?
19217,"Perdita, shut up in herself, spoke little."
19218,"I quickly destroyed part of my sledge to construct oars, and by these means was enabled, with infinite fatigue, to move my ice raft in the direction of your ship."
19219,"But, then, the radicalness of these differences, which was excessive; the dirt; the soiled and torn condition of the paper, so inconsistent with the true methodical habits of D , and so suggestive of a design to delude the beholder into an idea of the worthlessness of the document; these things, together with the hyper obtrusive situation of this document, full in the view of every visiter, and thus exactly in accordance with the conclusions to which I had previously arrived; these things, I say, were strongly corroborative of suspicion, in one who came with the intention to suspect."
19220,"The high and snowy mountains were its immediate boundaries, but I saw no more ruined castles and fertile fields."
19221,A moment later came the titanic thunderbolt of thunderbolts; blasting that accursed house of unutterable secrets and bringing the oblivion which alone saved my mind.
19222,So I will carefully don my diving suit and walk boldly up the steps into that primal shrine; that silent secret of unfathomed waters and uncounted years.
19223,"I had been accustomed, during the night, to steal a part of their store for my own consumption, but when I found that in doing this I inflicted pain on the cottagers, I abstained and satisfied myself with berries, nuts, and roots which I gathered from a neighbouring wood."
19224,Men toiled at the grave in which I lay darkling.
19225,"Later, I thought, they might aid me; but I did not want them then."
19226,"It is certainly best not to compromise oneself by any concealment."""
19227,"To our right the Acropolis rose high, spectatress of a thousand changes, of ancient glory, Turkish slavery, and the restoration of dear bought liberty; tombs and cenotaphs were strewed thick around, adorned by ever renewing vegetation; the mighty dead hovered over their monuments, and beheld in our enthusiasm and congregated numbers a renewal of the scenes in which they had been the actors."
19228,"During her last struggle he felt something bite at his ankle, and saw that Brown Jenkin had come to her aid."
19229,He ees too seeck for doctair heemself seecker and seecker all the time but he weel not have no othair for help.
19230,The arms altogether were admirably modelled.
19231,I was not so sanguine as she as to the result of our voyage.
19232,"This gentlemen had amassed a princely fortune, and, having no very immediate connexions, conceived the whim of suffering his wealth to accumulate for a century after his decease."
19233,"There was some peculiarly abominable quality about them which made their destruction seem almost a duty, and Johansen shews ingenuous wonder at the charge of ruthlessness brought against his party during the proceedings of the court of inquiry."
19234,"Mounting a chair, he attached one end of the rope to a hook in the great exposed central beam of black oak, and began making a noose with the other end."
19235,"The baying was very faint now, and it ceased altogether as I approached the ancient grave I had once violated, and frightened away an abnormally large horde of bats which had been hovering curiously around it."
19236,"Thus situated, employed in the most detestable occupation, immersed in a solitude where nothing could for an instant call my attention from the actual scene in which I was engaged, my spirits became unequal; I grew restless and nervous."
19237,"I was new to sorrow, but it did not the less alarm me."
19238,"It was clear to me that the letter had been turned, as a glove, inside out, re directed, and re sealed."
19239,My balloon was soon completed.
19240,"Nevertheless is he confirmed in his instinctive opinions, by the concurrence of all his compeers."
19241,"The day was pleasant, but even in the brightest sunlight a kind of quiet dread and portent seemed to hover about the strangely domed hills and the deep, shadowy ravines of the stricken region."
19242,"I had been looking steadily at the top of this hogshead for some minutes, and what now caused me surprise was the fact that I had not sooner perceived the object thereupon."
19243,"Scoffing devil Again do I vow vengeance; again do I devote thee, miserable fiend, to torture and death."
19244,"Having gone as far as possible in this direction, a sudden turn was made to the left, and the vehicle was driven at right angles to its former course, and still closely along the edge of the table."
19245,It is needless to say that a very short time sufficed us to lose sight of the coast.
19246,"I shall ask him when I see him, for I expect to meet him shortly in a certain dream city we both used to haunt."
19247,"I imagined that they would be disgusted, until, by my gentle demeanour and conciliating words, I should first win their favour and afterwards their love."
19248,"Past, present, future, all are one in Yog Sothoth."
19249,He then bowed and departed.
19250,"I pictured to myself a lovely river such as that on whose banks Dante describes Mathilda gathering flowers, which ever flows bruna, bruna, Sotto l'ombra perpetua, che mai Raggiar non lascia sole ivi, ne Luna."
19251,"These were wild and miserable thoughts, but I cannot describe to you how the eternal twinkling of the stars weighed upon me and how I listened to every blast of wind as if it were a dull ugly siroc on its way to consume me."
19252,"Policemen appeared at the door, attracted by the noise, but for a time they made no move to intervene."
19253,"The plague is in London; the air of England is tainted, and her sons and daughters strew the unwholesome earth."
19254,"One morning at breakfast I came close to disaster by declaiming in palpably liquorish accents an effusion of eighteenth century Bacchanalian mirth; a bit of Georgian playfulness never recorded in a book, which ran something like this: Come hither, my lads, with your tankards of ale, And drink to the present before it shall fail; Pile each on your platter a mountain of beef, For 'tis eating and drinking that bring us relief: So fill up your glass, For life will soon pass; When you're dead ye'll ne'er drink to your king or your lass Anacreon had a red nose, so they say; But what's a red nose if ye're happy and gay?"
19255,"Astounding News by Express, via Norfolk The Atlantic crossed in Three Days Signal Triumph of Mr. Monck Mason's Flying Machine Arrival at Sullivan's Island, near Charlestown, S.C., of Mr. Mason, Mr. Robert Holland, Mr. Henson, Mr. Harrison Ainsworth, and four others, in the Steering Balloon, ""Victoria,"" after a passage of Seventy five Hours from Land to Land Full Particulars of the Voyage The subjoined jeu d'esprit with the preceding heading in magnificent capitals, well interspersed with notes of admiration, was originally published, as matter of fact, in the ""New York Sun,"" a daily newspaper, and therein fully subserved the purpose of creating indigestible aliment for the quidnuncs during the few hours intervening between a couple of the Charleston mails."
19256,"In the later dreams he began to distinguish separate categories into which the organic objects appeared to be divided, and which seemed to involve in each case a radically different species of conduct pattern and basic motivation."
19257,"That is the Orontes, and it is the only water in sight, with the exception of the Mediterranean, which stretches, like a broad mirror, about twelve miles off to the southward."
19258,"This derivative, to say the truth, is still countenanced by some traces of the electric fluid evident on the summit of the steeple of the House of the Town Council."
19259,"We perceived the effect of this manoeuvre immediately, in a vastly increased rate of progress; and, as the gale freshened, we flew with a velocity nearly inconceivable; the guide rope flying out behind the car, like a streamer from a vessel."
19260,"""Wonderful genius"" said the Quarterly."
19261,"He bowed as I presented it; then, with a grave countenance, motioned me to a seat."
19262,"But when questioned, Slater relapsed into the habitual vacancy of the mountaineer, and only reiterated what he had said on the preceding day."
19263,I can scarcely say why.
19264,"The bodies of fat and fleshy persons, with small bones, and of women generally, are lighter than those of the lean and large boned, and of men; and the specific gravity of the water of a river is somewhat influenced by the presence of the tide from sea."
19265,"These were the words upon whose mystical meaning I had so long pondered, rejecting the explanations of the priesthood, until Death himself resolved for me the secret."
19266,"Could they thrust back from the path of distinction and laudable ambition, the heir of their ancient kings, and heap another disappointment on a fallen house."
19267,"My immediate purpose is to lead you to place in juxtaposition, that very unusual activity of which I have just spoken with that very peculiar shrill or harsh and unequal voice, about whose nationality no two persons could be found to agree, and in whose utterance no syllabification could be detected."""
19268,"As the men of Sarnath beheld more of the beings of Ib their hate grew, and it was not less because they found the beings weak, and soft as jelly to the touch of stones and spears and arrows."
19269,"It came, apparently, from the barn; and was quickly followed by a hideous screaming and stamping amongst the cattle."
19270,My own impressions I would not pretend to render intelligible to the reader.
19271,"In another instant I was knocked from my gruesome bench by the devilish threshing of some unseen entity of titanic size but undetermined nature; knocked sprawling on the root clutched mould of that abhorrent graveyard, while from the tomb came such a stifled uproar of gasping and whirring that my fancy peopled the rayless gloom with Miltonic legions of the misshapen damned."
19272,"In this year the servant Mehitabel died, and the other servant, Preserved Smith, left without coherent explanation or at least, with only some wild tales and a complaint that he disliked the smell of the place."
19273,"""I now replaced the nail and regarded it attentively."
19274,"You will find him at Dunkeld; gentle and tractable he wanders up the hills, and through the wood, or sits listening beside the waterfall."
19275,You know it's always ben a kind of mystery where the Marshes get the gold they refine.
19276,"Cotton Mather, in that daemoniac sixth book which no one should read after dark, minced no words as he flung forth his anathema."
19277,In Death we have both learned the propensity of man to define the indefinable.
19278,"I soon found him of weak intellect, and, of course, marked him as a fitting subject for my skill."
19279,We are below the river's bed.
19280,"In winter it would be in the east, but mostly if in the small hours of morning."
19281,"And in the direction or concentration of this effort or, more properly, in its adaptation to the eyes which were to behold it on earth he perceived that he should be employing the best means laboring to the greatest advantage in the fulfilment, not only of his own destiny as poet, but of the august purposes for which the Deity had implanted the poetic sentiment in man."
19282,Alas to what loathsome shifts must I be driven?
19283,"Interruptions are annoying and should undoubtedly be abolished don't you think so? no reply, I beg you, one person is enough to be speaking at a time."
19284,"After Barry had told me these things I was very drowsy, for the travels of the day had been wearying and my host had talked late into the night."
19285,"""Do not deceive yourself,"" replied Raymond, ""the separation at hand is one over which I have no control; most near at hand is it; the days are already counted."
19286,"When we flatter ourselves that we have formed its conception, we have merely deceived our understanding by the consideration of infinitely rarified matter."
19287,"It was also evident that, by exertion of a very unusual degree of activity and courage, an entrance into the window, from the rod, might have been thus effected."
19288,His friends remembered him as a brilliant vision which would never again return to them.
19289,"Any mechanical arrangement which would cause the figure to move, in any given manner, the left arm could, if reversed, cause it to move, in the same manner, the right."
19290,"I never saw any woman who excited, as Elizabeth does, my warmest admiration and affection."
19291,"Something told him that it was not its real evils that lay heavily at her heart, but the debasement and disgrace attendant on it; as he talked, he divested it of these; sometimes speaking of her fortitude with energetic praise; then, alluding to her past state, he called her his Princess in disguise."
19292,One evening a numerous assembly of Greek chieftains were gathered together in the palace.
19293,"He was alone, examining some petitions lately presented."
19294,"I am practically industrious painstaking, a workman to execute with perseverance and labour but besides this there is a love for the marvellous, a belief in the marvellous, intertwined in all my projects, which hurries me out of the common pathways of men, even to the wild sea and unvisited regions I am about to explore."
19295,"On June , Seamen Bohm and Schmidt, who had been ill the day before, became violently insane."
19296,"But now, he who dies finds many companions gone before to prepare for his reception."
19297,He meditated on what was best to be done.
19298,Maybe the Innsmouth folks like 'em to look at themselves Gawd knows they've gotten to be about as bad as South Sea cannibals and Guinea savages.
19299,"For what really occurred, however, it is quite impossible that any human being could have been prepared."
19300,"There then in that castle in Windsor Castle, birth place of Idris and my babes, should be the haven and retreat for the wrecked bark of human society."
19301,"But you forget that the matter of which I speak is, in all respects, the very ""mind"" or ""spirit"" of the schools, so far as regards its high capacities, and is, moreover, the ""matter"" of these schools at the same time."
19302,"Told abaout an island east of Otaheité whar they was a lot o' stone ruins older'n anybody knew anything abaout, kind o' like them on Ponape, in the Carolines, but with carvin's of faces that looked like the big statues on Easter Island."
19303,"It required all her self command, to suppress the gush of tears self pity caused at this idea."
19304,Soon after this he inquired if I thought that the breaking up of the ice had destroyed the other sledge.
19305,"""D , I presume, is not altogether a fool, and, if not, must have anticipated these waylayings, as a matter of course."""
19306,"""Name it, my beloved, my Eugenie, my own name it but, alas it is already yielded ere named."""
19307,"That the plague was not what is commonly called contagious, like the scarlet fever, or extinct small pox, was proved."
19308,"If there is a chasm our mutual love will give us wings to pass it, and we shall find flowers, and verdure, and delight on the other side."""
19309,The Prefect was fond of the cant of diplomacy.
19310,"I am convinced, that had the myriad troops of Asia come from over the Propontis, and stood defenders of the Golden City, each and every Greek would have marched against the overwhelming numbers, and have devoted himself with patriotic fury for his country."
19311,"That night the wanderers left Ulthar, and were never seen again."
19312,"But I am ambitious of signalizing my abdication of the literary sceptre by some important bequest to posterity; and, perhaps, I cannot do a better thing than just pen for it an account of my earlier career."
19313,"""I have copies of these letters, for I found means, during my residence in the hovel, to procure the implements of writing; and the letters were often in the hands of Felix or Agatha."
19314,I eagerly seized the prize and returned with it to my hovel.
19315,"So, too, as we sailed the next day away from Holland to our home, we thought we heard the faint distant baying of some gigantic hound in the background."
19316,"This path was excessively sinuous, and as the sun could not be seen, I soon lost all idea of the direction in which I journeyed."
19317,What I wrote it is unnecessary to say.
19318,I will hover near and direct the steel aright.
19319,"This was unreasonable, and I told him so in a speech of some length."
19320,"It was about five months after this return home, that her friends were alarmed by her sudden disappearance for the second time."
19321,"They had all kinds o' cities on the sea bottom, an' this island was heaved up from thar."
19322,"In this progress, I took notice that no sight of the out houses could be obtained."
19323,"And the lips of the dead lotos faces whispered sadly, and bade me follow, nor did I cease my steps till the stream became a river, and joined amidst marshes of swaying reeds and beaches of gleaming sand the shore of a vast and nameless sea."
19324,"Clara, though only twelve years old, was rendered, through extreme sensibility, so prudent and careful, that I felt secure in entrusting the charge of him to her, and it was my task to prevent Idris from observing their absence."
19325,Spoke to day the magnetic cutter in charge of the middle section of floating telegraph wires.
19326,"I am not now writing a treatise, but simply prefacing a somewhat peculiar narrative by observations very much at random; I will, therefore, take occasion to assert that the higher powers of the reflective intellect are more decidedly and more usefully tasked by the unostentatious game of draughts than by all the elaborate frivolity of chess."
19327,"Raymond had never visited the dwellings of want, and the scene that now presented itself struck him to the heart."
19328,"The sentence in question has but one meaning, as it stands; and this meaning I have fairly stated: but it is material that we go behind the mere words, for an idea which these words have obviously intended, and failed to convey."
19329,"You have hope, and the world before you, and have no cause for despair."
19330,"To clear my ideas on this topic I felt in my pocket for my snuff box, but, upon getting it, and endeavoring to apply a pinch of its grateful contents in the ordinary manner, I became immediately aware of my peculiar deficiency, and threw the box at once down to my head."
19331,"There, Margaret, the sun is forever visible, its broad disk just skirting the horizon and diffusing a perpetual splendour."
19332,I forced the last stone into its position; I plastered it up.
19333,Whether I believe them now I honestly do not know.
19334,"It was suspected that the Turks, finding themselves possessed of so illustrious a captive, resolved to satisfy their cruelty rather than their avarice, and fearful of the interference of England, had come to the determination of concealing for ever the cold blooded murder of the soldier they most hated and feared in the squadrons of their enemy."
19335,"Cast away the hearts of tigers that burn in your breasts; throw down those tools of cruelty and hate; in this pause of exterminating destiny, let each man be brother, guardian, and stay to the other."
19336,"From the latter from the data the second step of the question, dependent thereupon, inevitably follows."
19337,"The interior of the figure, as seen through these apertures, appears to be crowded with machinery."
19338,"Oh believe me, if you beheld on lips pale with grief one smile of joy and gratitude, and knew that you were parent of that smile, and that without you it had never been, you would feel so pure and warm a happiness that you would wish to live for ever again and again to enjoy the same pleasure."
19339,First of all I dismembered the corpse.
19340,"But he steadied me with that terrible, ice cold claw, and once more made his insidious gesture."
19341,"No one, even those who have the facts concerning the recent horror, can say just what is the matter with Dunwich; though old legends speak of unhallowed rites and conclaves of the Indians, amidst which they called forbidden shapes of shadow out of the great rounded hills, and made wild orgiastic prayers that were answered by loud crackings and rumblings from the ground below."
19342,"Despite my most careful searches and investigations, I have never since been able to find the Rue d'Auseil."
19343,"This person introduced, or at all events propagated what was termed the deductive or a priori mode of investigation."
19344,"Suddenly there shot along the path a wild light, and I turned to see whence a gleam so unusual could have issued; for the vast house and its shadows were alone behind me."
19345,"Then the trees thinned, and far below him on his right he saw the hills and antique roofs and spires of Kingsport."
19346,"Let them prosecute and persecute above ground things went on every day that they couldn't reach, and voices laughed at night that they couldn't place ""Why, man, out of ten surviving houses built before and not moved since I'll wager that in eight I can shew you something queer in the cellar."
19347,But the looked for terror did not appear.
19348,"Business is business, and should be done in a business way."
19349,"You will observe that, for this reason, the mystery has been considered easy, when, for this reason, it should have been considered difficult, of solution."
19350,"It was said that the swart men who dwelt in The Street and congregated in its rotting edifices were the brains of a hideous revolution; that at their word of command many millions of brainless, besotted beasts would stretch forth their noisome talons from the slums of a thousand cities, burning, slaying, and destroying till the land of our fathers should be no more."
19351,"""One word more concerning unkind, unjust Perdita."
19352,"Little could be got from the survivors; but their cautious answers caused it to be surmised that several expeditions had preceded this last, and that several Turks of rank and importance had been conveyed to Asia."
19353,I revolved a thousand and a thousand plans.
19354,"Besides, upon the back of the trinket you may discover, perhaps, the very information you seem to desire."
19355,"What indeed could he reply to her complaints, to her griefs which she jealously paled round, keeping out all thought of remedy."
19356,"There was an epoch in the course of the general sentiment when the comet had attained, at length, a size surpassing that of any previously recorded visitation."
19357,"A light birch canoe that lay placidly on the water, was reflected in its minutest fibres with a fidelity unsurpassed by the most exquisitely polished mirror."
19358,"My fortunes have been, from the beginning, an exemplification of the power that mutability may possess over the varied tenor of man's life."
19359,"If he were vanquished, I should be a free man."
19360,Now the thing stands thus.
19361,"We entered, and as we did so I grew faint from a reek of infinite mustiness which welled out to meet us, and which must have been the fruit of unwholesome centuries of decay."
19362,"""Thar's whar it all begun that cursed place of all wickedness whar the deep water starts."
19363,I felt myself on the edge of the world; peering over the rim into a fathomless chaos of eternal night.
19364,"I sat by his bed, watching him; his eyes were closed, and I thought he slept; but presently he called to me in a feeble voice, and bidding me come near, said, ""Alas The strength I relied on is gone; I feel that I shall soon die, and he, my enemy and persecutor, may still be in being."
19365,"The boy was not talkative, yet when he spoke he seemed to reflect some elusive element wholly unpossessed by Dunwich and its denizens."
19366,"We visited the wondrous cave and the little cabinets of natural history, where the curiosities are disposed in the same manner as in the collections at Servox and Chamounix."
19367,The room in which I found myself was very large and lofty.
19368,"But how are we to judge of airs, and pronounce in such a city plague will die unproductive; in such another, nature has provided for it a plentiful harvest?"
19369,"Overjoyed at this discovery, he hastened to the house, which was situated in a mean street near the Reuss."
19370,"Looking about me, I beheld many marble slabs bearing coffins, or the remains of coffins."
19371,"I says I didn't do no pryin' arter that night but I faound things aout jest the same ""Yew want to know what the reel horror is, hey?"
19372,"If he dies with me it is well, and there will be an end of two miserable beings; and if he will not, then will I scoff at his friendship and drink the poison before him to shame his cowardice."
19373,One word more on this topic and I will be done boring you.
19374,"Even the source of colonies was dried up, for in New Holland, Van Diemen's Land, and the Cape of Good Hope, plague raged."
19375,"So blended bank and shadow there That each seemed pendulous in air so mirror like was the glassy water, that it was scarcely possible to say at what point upon the slope of the emerald turf its crystal dominion began."
19376,"The arms stirred disquietingly, the legs drew up, and various muscles contracted in a repulsive kind of writhing."
19377,"That suggestive patch, by the way, was only faintly visible when we placed our furniture and instruments, and when we returned that evening for the actual vigil."
19378,"Heavy misfortunes have befallen us, but let us only cling closer to what remains and transfer our love for those whom we have lost to those who yet live."
19379,Few Italians have the true virtuoso spirit.
19380,He entered attentively into all my arguments in favour of my eventual success and into every minute detail of the measures I had taken to secure it.
19381,"Sometimes one feels that it would be merciful to tear down these houses, for they must often dream."
19382,"She never complained, but sleep and appetite fled from her, a slow fever preyed on her veins, her colour was hectic, and she often wept in secret; gloomy prognostications, care, and agonizing dread, ate up the principle of life within her."
19383,"It occasionally happens, however, that the concerto yells are succeeded by a simultaneous effort at breaking loose, when, of course, some little danger is to be apprehended."""
19384,I can shew you houses that have stood two centuries and a half and more; houses that have witnessed what would make a modern house crumble into powder.
19385,"Her small, bare, and silvery feet gleamed in the black mirror of marble beneath her."
19386,That the body was found without weight is also corroborative of the idea.
19387,"Besides, there were two voices heard in contention, and one of them was unquestionably the voice of a Frenchman."""
19388,"These latter did not extend to the floor, but were much longer and narrower than usual they had single shutters like doors the panes were of lozenge form, but quite large."
19389,"I positively felt a wish to explore its depths, even at the sacrifice I was going to make; and my principal grief was that I should never be able to tell my old companions on shore about the mysteries I should see."
19390,With that thought I rolled my eves nervously around on the barriers of iron that hemmed me in.
19391,It was not like the very old folk to spare their victims at the Sabbath.
19392,"From the side where I now stood Montanvert was exactly opposite, at the distance of a league; and above it rose Mont Blanc, in awful majesty."
19393,"I had lived in what is generally called the world of reality, and it was awakening to a new country to find that there was a deeper meaning in all I saw, besides that which my eyes conveyed to me."
19394,"More than ever Kuranes wished to sail in a galley to the far places of which he had heard so many strange tales, and he sought again the captain who had agreed to carry him so long ago."
19395,"I fear you have mesmerized"" adding immediately afterwards, ""deferred it too long."""
19396,I have traversed a vast portion of the earth and have endured all the hardships which travellers in deserts and barbarous countries are wont to meet.
19397,"Yet, even then, I have checked thick coming fears with one thought; I would not fear death, for the emotions that linked us must be immortal."
19398,"An unnatural excess of oxygen would result, it had been ascertained in just such an elevation of the animal spirits as we had latterly experienced."
19399,"But I was sorely put out by the absence of all else of the body to my imagined instrument of the text for my context."""
19400,"I, the elder of the two, was five years old when my mother died."
19401,"By the learned in what might be termed theological morality they will be readily conceived, and by the unlearned they would, at all events, be little understood."
19402,She was a Roman Catholic; and I believe her confessor confirmed the idea which she had conceived.
19403,"May God grant that we succeed I ask not success for mere safety to my insignificant person, but for the sake of human knowledge and for the vastness of the triumph."
19404,"""These thoughts exhilarated me and led me to apply with fresh ardour to the acquiring the art of language."
19405,"But memory never died, and high priests said that the city would rise again when the stars were right."
19406,"In short, we are madly erring, through self esteem, in believing man, in either his temporal or future destinies, to be of more moment in the universe than that vast ""clod of the valley"" which he tills and contemns, and to which he denies a soul for no more profound reason than that he does not behold it in operation."
19407,"Professor Angell's instant start on an investigation of the utmost thoroughness was eminently natural; though privately I suspected young Wilcox of having heard of the cult in some indirect way, and of having invented a series of dreams to heighten and continue the mystery at my uncle's expense."
19408,"""What d'ye think o' this ain't never see the like hereabouts, eh?"
19409,The native modesty of his disposition conquered the joy of his triumph.
19410,"Penniless, and at the end of my supply of the drug which alone makes life endurable, I can bear the torture no longer; and shall cast myself from this garret window into the squalid street below."
19411,"We then conversed on the plan I should pursue, and discussed the probable means of discovering his residence."
19412,"Of late years however, an anonymous writer, by a course of reasoning exceedingly unphilosophical, has contrived to blunder upon a plausible solution although we cannot consider it altogether the true one."
19413,But I need not vex you with impertinent details.
19414,I adopted another plan.
19415,"She had been reserved and even stern in childhood; but love had softened the asperities of her character, and her union with Raymond had caused her talents and affections to unfold themselves; the one betrayed, and the other lost, she in some degree returned to her ancient disposition."
19416,"They had devoured, in spite of all my efforts to prevent them, all but a small remnant of the contents of the dish."
19417,"After he had secured my reluctant acquiescence in his design, Warren picked up the reel of wire and adjusted the instruments."
19418,Still Talbot would not return.
19419,The plague is now in progress it is useless closing one's eyes to the fact the deaths encrease each week.
19420,"My head ached, and I fancied a ringing in my ears: but still they sat and still chatted."
19421,"Various and eventful, however, had been the peregrinations of the worthy couple in and about the different tap houses of the neighbourhood during the earlier hours of the night."
19422,"They endeavoured to picture forth what would then happen, and spoke in lofty terms of the prosperity of Greece, when Constantinople should become its capital."
19423,"Next year I may be dwelling in the dark Egypt which you call ancient, or in the cruel empire of Tsan Chan which is to come three thousand years hence."
19424,"""I take it for granted that she is not particularly not dangerously affected, eh?"" ""Mon dieu what is it you imagine?"
19425,"His lips and cheeks were fuzzy with a coarse dark down, and his voice had begun to break."
19426,"Margaret, what comment can I make on the untimely extinction of this glorious spirit?"
19427,"Then we had the 'Confessions of an Opium eater' fine, very fine glorious imagination deep philosophy acute speculation plenty of fire and fury, and a good spicing of the decidedly unintelligible."
19428,"As I hung back, the old man produced his stylus and tablet and wrote that he was the true deputy of my fathers who had founded the Yule worship in this ancient place; that it had been decreed I should come back, and that the most secret mysteries were yet to be performed."
19429,"I say ""at will;"" for the question is of will, and not, as the insanity of logic has assumed, of power."
19430,"WHATEVER doubt may still envelop the rationale of mesmerism, its startling facts are now almost universally admitted."
19431,"The old woman shuddered, she contrived at length to sit upright; but her teeth chattered, and her knees knocked together close, very close, lay a half naked figure, just discernible in the gloom, and the cry for water and the stifled moan were again uttered."
19432,"His discourse was addressed to myself; but his voice, although by no means loud, had that intonation which is commonly employed in speaking to some one at a great distance."
19433,"His frightened horse had gone home, but his frightened wits never quite did that."
19434,"He was then seemingly dead; but he sat nearly erect within his coffin, the lid of which, in his furious struggles, he had partially uplifted."
19435,"Then the lids opened, shewing eyes which were grey, calm, and alive, but still unintelligent and not even curious."
19436,"As her strength grew less, I lifted her from the ground; her emaciated form hung over my arm, her sunken cheek rested on my breast; in a sepulchral voice she murmured: ""This is the end of love Yet not the end"" and frenzy lent her strength as she cast her arm up to heaven: ""there is the end there we meet again."
19437,"We were, as we believed, many hundred miles from any land; but this apparition seemed to denote that it was not, in reality, so distant as we had supposed."
19438,The next day I ascended to the conning tower and commenced the customary searchlight explorations.
19439,What I saw or fancied I saw was a disturbing suggestion of undulant motion far to the south; a suggestion which made me conclude that a very large horde must be pouring out of the city along the level Ipswich road.
19440,Of old navies used to stem the giant ocean waves betwixt Indus and the Pole for slight articles of luxury.
19441,"In going out, she gave notice to a Monsieur Jacques St. Eustache, and to him only, of her intent intention to spend the day with an aunt who resided in the Rue des Drômes."
19442,"A poverty but little above the level of dire want, together with a pride of name that forbids its alleviation by the pursuits of commercial life, have prevented the scions of our line from maintaining their estates in pristine splendour; and the falling stones of the walls, the overgrown vegetation in the parks, the dry and dusty moat, the ill paved courtyards, and toppling towers without, as well as the sagging floors, the worm eaten wainscots, and the faded tapestries within, all tell a gloomy tale of fallen grandeur."
19443,He spoke of the flame eyed Crusader who learnt wild secrets of the Saracens that held him captive; and of the first Sir Randolph Carter who studied magic when Elizabeth was queen.
19444,"I do not know that the relation of my disasters will be useful to you; yet, when I reflect that you are pursuing the same course, exposing yourself to the same dangers which have rendered me what I am, I imagine that you may deduce an apt moral from my tale, one that may direct you if you succeed in your undertaking and console you in case of failure."
19445,Raymond had joined in the former part of the discussion.
19446,"I read of men concerned in public affairs, governing or massacring their species."
19447,"We may guess that in dreams life, matter, and vitality, as the earth knows such things, are not necessarily constant; and that time and space do not exist as our waking selves comprehend them."
19448,The disturbances were the preparations for his subsequently conceived deathful condition.
19449,"The nightmare was quick to come; for as I entered, there occurred immediately one of the most terrifying demonstrations I had ever conceived."
19450,"His voice, usually gentle, often startled you by a sharp discordant note, which shewed that his usual low tone was rather the work of study than nature."
19451,"""The name of the old man was De Lacey."
19452,"For many hours the immediate vicinity of the low framework upon which I lay, had been literally swarming with rats."
19453,"Come, Mister Randy, or Hannah wun't keep supper no longer"" So Randolph Carter was marched up the road where wondering stars glimmered through high autumn boughs."
19454,"""I have sinned c'est vrai but, my good sir, consider you have no actual intention of putting such such barbarous threats into execution."""
19455,"Now here, I conceive, is a positive paradox."
19456,"Pompey arose, and said no word."
19457,You mos not trink it so strong you mos put te water in te wine.
19458,"By degrees the calm and heavenly scene restored me, and I continued my journey towards Geneva."
19459,"Rushing to the corpse, I saw distinctly saw a tremor upon the lips."
19460,"He lost no time in endeavouring to seek him out, with the hope of persuading him to begin the world again through his credit and assistance."
19461,"It was from my own Elizabeth: ""My dearest Cousin, ""You have been ill, very ill, and even the constant letters of dear kind Henry are not sufficient to reassure me on your account."
19462,"Friendship, hand in hand with admiration, tenderness and respect, built a bower of delight in my heart, late rough as an untrod wild in America, as the homeless wind or herbless sea."
19463,"In this excursion I was attended by one negro servant, Pompey, and my little lap dog Diana, whom I had brought with me from Philadelphia."
19464,"He said he had risen up out of the blackness of twenty seven centuries, and that he had heard messages from places not on this planet."
19465,"""There is another point at which there seems a deficiency of observation on the part of Le Commerciel."
19466,"I may be absent a month or two; but do not interfere with my motions, I entreat you; leave me to peace and solitude for a short time; and when I return, I hope it will be with a lighter heart, more congenial to your own temper."""
19467,"Why should he seek to avenge the death of poor Michel Mauvais, and how had the curse been carried on through all the long centuries since the time of Charles Le Sorcier?"
19468,My heart no longer beat wildly; I did not feel any fever: but I was chilled; my knees sunk under me I almost slept as I walked with excess of weariness; every limb trembled.
19469,I followed the windings of this pass with much interest.
19470,I was more agile than they and could subsist upon coarser diet; I bore the extremes of heat and cold with less injury to my frame; my stature far exceeded theirs.
19471,"The pretended lunatic was a man in my own pay."""
19472,And them men them can't be niggers they dew beat all.
19473,"However this might be, the haughty Countess entrusted none with the secrets of her family tuition."
19474,"This was said in a low, fluctuating tone, and with every sign of the most profound veneration."
19475,"Never could they realise that their brute foundations were as shifting and contradictory as the gods of their elders, and that the satisfaction of one moment is the bane of the next."
19476,"Twice again it swung, and a sharp sense of pain shot through every nerve."
19477,"I heard them in my youth from the lips of a playmate, a beggar's boy given to strange dreams, who would weave long tales about the moon and the flowers and the west wind."
19478,"D rushed to a casement, threw it open, and looked out."
19479,"West and I were almost dead, and Dr. Halsey did die on the th."
19480,"His stature was gaunt and tall, and Legs was confounded to behold in him a figure more emaciated than himself."
19481,"Communication had been to a great degree cut off through the paralyzing effects of pestilence, so that the van of our invaders had proceeded as far as Manchester and Derby, before we received notice of their arrival."
19482,I had imposed a law of silence on myself; and for months I have kept it.
19483,"It was partly human, beyond a doubt, with very man like hands and head, and the goatish, chinless face had the stamp of the Whateleys upon it."
19484,"All this done, and your diddler grins."
19485,"When I found so astonishing a power placed within my hands, I hesitated a long time concerning the manner in which I should employ it."
19486,"How long it might require to evoke and extinguish the thing, we had no notion."
19487,"There was not, I soon decided, any reason why I should have felt that shuddering touch of evil pseudo memory."
19488,"It was not easy to find a good opening for two doctors in company, but finally the influence of the university secured us a practice in Bolton a factory town near Arkham, the seat of the college."
19489,"Say don't you think so? perfect despera a ado great pity, 'pon my honor wonderfully inventive age pro o odigies of valor By the by, did you ever hear about Captain Ma a a a n?"" ""Captain Mann be d d"" said I; ""please to go on with your story."""
19490,"The villagers had shunned the car and the driver from the north, but had whispered to me with pale faces when they saw I was going to Kilderry."
19491,"I stand here, it would seem, an elected king; this hand is about to grasp a sceptre; these brows feel in each nerve the coming diadem."
19492,"A burning thirst consumed me, and I emptied the vessel at a draught."
19493,"Yet some feelings, unallied to the dross of human nature, beat even in these rugged bosoms."
19494,"I first became acquainted with him on board a whale vessel; finding that he was unemployed in this city, I easily engaged him to assist in my enterprise."
19495,"But it is preposterous to descant upon such absurdity although 'Oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, has the unparalleled effrontery to suppose that we will not only 'insert' his ignorant ravings, but absolutely pay for them ""Now this is fine it is rich and we have half a mind to punish this young scribbler for his egotism, by really publishing his effusion, verbatim et literatim, as he has written it."
19496,It was with these feelings that I began the creation of a human being.
19497,"My journey had been my own suggestion, and Elizabeth therefore acquiesced, but she was filled with disquiet at the idea of my suffering, away from her, the inroads of misery and grief."
19498,"Love for you invested the world for me in enchanted light; it was no longer the earth I trod the earth, common mother, yielding only trite and stale repetition of objects and circumstances old and worn out."
19499,"At length, for the third or fourth time, they descended into the cellar."
19500,"I called aloud for him through the darkness of night, over the scorching ruins of fallen Constantinople, his name was heard; no voice replied echo even was mute."
19501,"For my contact with this affair has been closer than that of any other layman, and I have carried away impressions which are yet to drive me to drastic measures."
19502,"But in this mortal life extremes are always matched; the thorn grows with the rose, the poison tree and the cinnamon mingle their boughs."
19503,"If, in addition to the point of general size and contour, he had found upon the arm a peculiar hairy appearance which he had observed upon the living Marie, his opinion might have been justly strengthened; and the increase of positiveness might well have been in the ratio of the peculiarity, or unusualness, of the hairy mark."
19504,"This prison like rampart formed the limit of our domain; beyond it we saw but thrice a week once every Saturday afternoon, when, attended by two ushers, we were permitted to take brief walks in a body through some of the neighbouring fields and twice during Sunday, when we were paraded in the same formal manner to the morning and evening service in the one church of the village."
19505,You never saw a more brilliant metallic lustre than the scales emit but of this you cannot judge till tomorrow.
19506,"Accordingly, a few months after your departure for Ingolstadt, Justine was called home by her repentant mother."
19507,"Credit was good, employment was never wanting, and on all hands there was no lack of either money or good will."
19508,"""It is now high time that I should explain to your Excellencies the object of my perilous voyage."
19509,"We knew that there was scarcely a chance for anything like complete success, and could not avoid hideous fears at possible grotesque results of partial animation."
19510,"Next morning it appeared as follows: 'We quote from ""The Tea Pot"" of yesterday the subjoined paragraph: ""Oh, yes Oh, we perceive Oh, no doubt Oh, my Oh, goodness Oh, tempora Oh, Moses"" Why, the fellow is all O That accounts for his reasoning in a circle, and explains why there is neither beginning nor end to him, nor to anything he says."
19511,The chimerical aspect of their terror was gone.
19512,"Finally, by dint of great perseverance, they traced him to a garret in an old house of seven stories, in an alley called Flatzplatz, and, coming upon him suddenly, found him, as they imagined, in the midst of his counterfeiting operations."
19513,In reading the above sentence a curious apothegm of an old weather beaten Dutch navigator comes full upon my recollection.
19514,It requires more philosophy than I possess to bear this injustice with patience.
19515,"Horrible, most horrible I veil my eyes in terror of the change, and gushing tears bear witness to my sympathy for this unimaginable ruin."
19516,We the besiegers were in the comparison little affected by these evils.
19517,"""Wal, Sir, it seems by the time Obed knowed them islanders they was all full o' fish blood from them deep water things."
19518,Against the new masonry I re erected the old rampart of bones.
19519,I at length felt that I was free.
19520,"We were not, as I have said, in any sense childishly superstitious, but scientific study and reflection had taught us that the known universe of three dimensions embraces the merest fraction of the whole cosmos of substance and energy."
19521,"His full name long and pompous according to the custom of an age which had lost the trinomial simplicity of classic Roman nomenclature is stated by Von Schweinkopf to have been Caius Anicius Magnus Furius Camillus Æmilianus Cornelius Valerius Pompeius Julius Ibidus; though Littlewit rejects Æmilianus and adds Claudius Decius Junianus; whilst Bêtenoir differs radically, giving the full name as Magnus Furius Camillus Aurelius Antoninus Flavius Anicius Petronius Valentinianus Aegidus Ibidus."
19522,"Whence he had come, no one could tell."
19523,"Once more came the voice of my friend, still hoarse with fear, and now apparently tinged with despair: ""I can't tell you, Carter It's too utterly beyond thought I dare not tell you no man could know it and live Great God I never dreamed of THIS"" Stillness again, save for my now incoherent torrent of shuddering inquiry."
19524,The whole project was thus a complete failure.
19525,"There is a meaning in the eye of love; a cadence in its voice, an irradiation in its smile, the talisman of whose enchantments one only can possess; its spirit is elemental, its essence single, its divinity an unit."
19526,"I HAVE lingered thus long on the extreme bank, the wasting shoal that stretched into the stream of life, dallying with the shadow of death."
19527,"I practised for some time by the borders of a well frequented marsh; herein, however, having no reference to a similar proceeding of Demosthenes, but from a design peculiarly and conscientiously my own."
19528,It conveyed to my soul the idea of revolution perhaps from its association in fancy with the burr of a mill wheel.
19529,"""Great man"" said Bentley."
19530,"""After some weeks my wound healed, and I continued my journey."
19531,His ordinary occupations were neglected or forgotten.
19532,"And then the music ceased, as I have told; and the evolutions of the waltzers were quieted; and there was an uneasy cessation of all things as before."
19533,"But when the echoes had fully ceased, a light laughter at once pervaded the assembly; the musicians looked at each other and smiled as if at their own nervousness and folly, and made whispering vows, each to the other, that the next chiming of the clock should produce in them no similar emotion; and then, after the lapse of sixty minutes, which embrace three thousand and six hundred seconds of the Time that flies, there came yet another chiming of the clock, and then were the same disconcert and tremulousness and meditation as before."
19534,"Some particulars of the descent were communicated, however, by Mr. Ainsworth to Mr. Forsyth."
19535,"We examined the moss between the bricks, and found it undisturbed."""
19536,"But it will please me to see you each day to listen to the public voice praising you; to keep up your paternal love for our girl; to hear your voice; to know that I am near you, though you are no longer mine."
19537,"""And what is that?"" ""If I do make it my choice, then you shall know; at present I dare not speak, even think of it."""
19538,"He vows that I was broken down with nervous strain, and badly in need of the long vacation on full pay which he so generously gave me."
19539,"For three days the snow fell, ice stopped the current of the rivers, and the birds flew out from crackling branches of the frost whitened trees."
19540,The process of unearthing was slow and sordid it might have been gruesomely poetical if we had been artists instead of scientists and we were glad when our spades struck wood.
19541,"Some five or six volumes, just from the hands of the binder, we carefully probed, longitudinally, with the needles."""
19542,"""My dear Child ""I have betrayed your confidence; I have endeavoured to pollute your mind, and have made your innocent heart acquainted with the looks and language of unlawful and monstrous passion."
19543,I instantly wrote to Geneva; nearly two months have elapsed since the departure of my letter.
19544,"But I was at once startled and enchanted by my sudden extension of vision, when the curtain, which had been drawn before the intellectual world, was withdrawn, and I saw the universe, not only as it presented itself to my outward senses, but as it had appeared to the wisest among men."
19545,It was then seven o'clock on Saturday evening.
19546,"My life had hitherto been remarkably secluded and domestic, and this had given me invincible repugnance to new countenances."
19547,Where did he go sometimes in the night?
19548,I do not think that many of Sheehan's regular patrons will ever forget the day that young Alfred Trever came.
19549,"But it was not so; I was the same in strength, in earnest craving for sympathy, in my yearning for active exertion."
19550,"He then took the book himself, and read me a chapter aloud."
19551,"""Adolphe Le Bon, clerk to Mignaud et Fils, deposes that on the day in question, about noon, he accompanied Madame L'Espanaye to her residence with the francs, put up in two bags."
19552,But of the character of his remarks at the periods in question an example will best convey the idea.
19553,"He notes every variation of face as the play progresses, gathering a fund of thought from the differences in the expression of certainty, of surprise, of triumph, or of chagrin."
19554,"They admitted they had been drunk, but both vowed they had seen a crazily dressed trio furtively entering the dark passageway."
19555,"The rays of the newly risen sun poured in upon the whole, through windows, formed each of a single pane of crimson tinted glass."
19556,"To the north on the craggy precipice a few paces from the verge up sprang the magnificent trunks of numerous hickories, black walnuts, and chestnuts, interspersed with occasional oak, and the strong lateral branches thrown out by the walnuts especially, spread far over the edge of the cliff."
19557,The frauds of the banks of course I couldn't help.
19558,"He was attired, as I had expected, in a costume altogether similar to my own; wearing a Spanish cloak of blue velvet, begirt about the waist with a crimson belt sustaining a rapier."
19559,"When a fumbling came in the nearer casements he crept around to the west again, flattening himself against the wall beside the now opened windows."
19560,"But then there is the tone laconic, or curt, which has lately come much into use."
19561,"Average people in society and business New England's traditional ""salt of the earth"" gave an almost completely negative result, though scattered cases of uneasy but formless nocturnal impressions appear here and there, always between March d and April nd the period of young Wilcox's delirium."
19562,The modes and sources of this kind of error are well typified in the contemplation of the heavenly bodies.
19563,Yet from whom has not that rude hand rent away some dear connection?
19564,"Almighty God no, no They heard they suspected they knew they were making a mockery of my horror this I thought, and this I think."
19565,"I hope you have not been so foolish as to take offence at any little brusquerie of mine; but no, that is improbable."
19566,"These reflections made our legislators pause, before they could decide on the laws to be put in force."
19567,Because there were some considerations of deep interest beyond.
19568,"Before going in we walked up the street, turned down an alley, and then, again turning, passed in the rear of the building Dupin, meanwhile examining the whole neighborhood, as well as the house, with a minuteness of attention for which I could see no possible object."
19569,"Once my fancy was soothed with dreams of virtue, of fame, and of enjoyment."
19570,"Nay, you may have met with another whom you may love; and considering yourself as bound in honour to Elizabeth, this struggle may occasion the poignant misery which you appear to feel."" ""My dear father, reassure yourself."
19571,"My watch was still going, and told me that the hour was past noon."
19572,"But these and other difficulties attending respiration, as they were by no means so great as to put me in peril of my life, I determined to endure as I best could, in consideration of my leaving them behind me momently in my approach to the denser strata near the moon."
19573,"Stress of weather drove us up the Adriatic Gulph; and, our vessel being hardly fitted to weather a storm, we took refuge in the port of Ancona."
19574,"I could have fancied, while I looked at it, that some eminent landscape painter had built it with his brush."
19575,The lids clenched themselves together as if in a spasm.
19576,"Mais il faut agir that is to say, a Frenchman never faints outright."
19577,"For an item of news like this, it strikes us it was very coolly received."""
19578,"He laid a gnarled claw on my shoulder, and it seemed to me that its shaking was not altogether that of mirth."
