13999,"By slow degrees he recovered and ate a little soup, which restored him wonderfully."
14000,"By this time his pulse was imperceptible and his breathing was stertorous, and at intervals of half a minute."
14001,"She lay down among the tall corn, and fell asleep."
14002,"It is necessary that there be no chance of interruption there must be sufficient time given us to elude pursuit I will give it to be understood that I shall visit and spend the day with my aunt at the Rue des Drômes I well tell St. Eustache not to call for me until dark in this way, my absence from home for the longest possible period, without causing suspicion or anxiety, will be accounted for, and I shall gain more time than in any other manner."
14003,"Most of the puzzling was done after her early death, which took place at the birth of my grandmother her only child."
14004,"The windows were long, narrow, and pointed, and at so vast a distance from the black oaken floor as to be altogether inaccessible from within."
14005,"His head was stuck full of sable hearse plumes, which he nodded to and fro with a jaunty and knowing air; and, in his right hand, he held a huge human thigh bone, with which he appeared to have been just knocking down some member of the company for a song."
14006,"There was a rich widow disconsolate for the loss of her seventh husband, and to her wounded spirit I offered the balm of my vows."
14007,"Strange, that while the earth preserved her monotonous course, I dwelt with ever renewing wonder on her antique laws, and now that with excentric wheel she rushed into an untried path, I should feel this spirit fade; I struggled with despondency and weariness, but like a fog, they choked me."
14008,"Then more wood and brick grating, a pause, and the opening of the door at which I'll confess I started violently."
14009,"And now my own casual self suggestion that I might possibly be fool enough to confess the murder of which I had been guilty, confronted me, as if the very ghost of him whom I had murdered and beckoned me on to death."
14010,"""You, who call Frankenstein your friend, seem to have a knowledge of my crimes and his misfortunes."
14011,High above the toiling group the great swath trembled as its hellish maker re passed with snail like deliberateness.
14012,EH AHHHH AH E'YAAHHHH. . .
14013,"This point being settled, the Prefect broke forth at once into explanations of his own views, interspersing them with long comments upon the evidence; of which latter we were not yet in possession."
14014,Mathematics folklore the house old Keziah Brown Jenkin . . .
14015,"Warmer every minute, and the tissues can't last."
14016,He could not have failed to anticipate and events have proved that he did not fail to anticipate the waylayings to which he was subjected.
14017,"I lost not a moment, accordingly, in throwing overboard first my ballast, then my water kegs, then my condensing apparatus and gum elastic chamber, and finally every article within the car."
14018,"Had had 'em ages afore, but lost track o' the upper world arter a time."
14019,"The wretched female, loveless victim of vulgar brutality, had wandered to the toilet of high born beauty, and, arraying herself in the garb of splendour, had died before the mirror which reflected to herself alone her altered appearance."
14020,"After an hour his furtive taciturnity shewed signs of disappearing, but much to my disappointment he still sidetracked my questions about Innsmouth and its shadow haunted past."
14021,"The other manuscript papers were all brief notes, some of them accounts of the queer dreams of different persons, some of them citations from theosophical books and magazines notably W. Scott Elliot's Atlantis and the Lost Lemuria, and the rest comments on long surviving secret societies and hidden cults, with references to passages in such mythological and anthropological source books as Frazer's Golden Bough and Miss Murray's Witch Cult in Western Europe."
14022,Let him spend another sixteen years of desolate wandering: let him once more utter his wild complaints to the vast woods and the tremendous cataracts of another clime: let him again undergo fearful danger and soul quelling hardships: let the hot sun of the south again burn his passion worn cheeks and the cold night rains fall on him and chill his blood.
14023,But it is a still greater evil to me that I am self educated: for the first fourteen years of my life I ran wild on a common and read nothing but our Uncle Thomas' books of voyages.
14024,Presently we heard him descending.
14025,Perseverance: Your diddler perseveres.
14026,"Positively, there could not have intervened the tenth part of a second between the disengagement of the basket and its absolute and total disappearance with all that it contained."
14027,Its brilliant flowers look like a fairy dream but its fierce volcanoes like the passions of a turbulent heart.
14028,"A vast quantity of wheels, pinions, and other cabalistic looking machinery stood opposite the hole, close to it; and through the hole there passed an iron rod from the machinery."
14029,"It was deep; far deeper than anyone but Randolph suspected, for the boy had found a fissure in the farthermost black corner that led to a loftier grotto beyond a haunting sepulchral place whose granite walls held a curious illusion of conscious artifice."
14030,"Our lanterns disclosed the top of a flight of stone steps, dripping with some detestable ichor of the inner earth, and bordered by moist walls encrusted with nitre."
14031,"On the thirteenth day they reached the mountain's lonely base, and Atal spoke of his fears."
14032,"It seemed, therefore, that the effect of such escape was only sufficient to counterbalance the effect of some accelerating power."
14033,"I cannot think of the deep sea without shuddering at the nameless things that may at this very moment be crawling and floundering on its slimy bed, worshipping their ancient stone idols and carving their own detestable likenesses on submarine obelisks of water soaked granite."
14034,"By report she was known, I found, to all to many by sight but she had been in town only a few weeks, and there were very few, therefore, who claimed her personal acquaintance."
14035,Milder I half smiled in my agony as I thought of such application of such a term.
14036,"She enumerated their years of happiness; she brought before him past scenes of intimacy and happiness; she pictured their future life, she mentioned their child tears unbidden now filled her eyes."
14037,"She had a crotchet, but it was instinct with common sense, and gave pleasure to all who had the honor of her acquaintance."
14038,"Her health, and even the tranquillity of her hitherto constant spirit, had been shaken by what she had gone through."
14039,"As night approached I found myself at the entrance of the cemetery where William, Elizabeth, and my father reposed."
14040,"Every man for himself the devil take the protectorship, say I, if it expose me to danger"" ""Faint hearted man"" cried Adrian indignantly ""Your countrymen put their trust in you, and you betray them"" ""I betray them"" said Ryland, ""the plague betrays me."
14041,"The beauty, if I may so call it, of his art mystifique, lay in that consummate ability resulting from an almost intuitive knowledge of human nature, and a most wonderful self possession, by means of which he never failed to make it appear that the drolleries he was occupied in bringing to a point, arose partly in spite, and partly in consequence of the laudable efforts he was making for their prevention, and for the preservation of the good order and dignity of Alma Mater."
14042,"D'ye know, young Sir, I'm right sot on this un here."
14043,"""You speak of an almost forgotten dream,"" said Adrian, his countenance slightly clouding as he spoke; ""the visions of my boyhood have long since faded in the light of reality; I know now that I am not a man fitted to govern nations; sufficient for me, if I keep in wholesome rule the little kingdom of my own mortality."
14044,"I am weak, but surely the spirits who assist my vengeance will endow me with sufficient strength."""
14045,For the most part their enthusiasm is adopted to suit the time and opportunity to practise imposture upon the British and Austrian millionaires.
14046,But where was Perdita?
14047,In solitude only shall I be myself; in solitude I shall be thine.
14048,"In our road to the palace, we passed through the Greek cemetery; here on a tablet of black marble I caused him to be laid; the cypresses waved high above, their death like gloom accorded with his state of nothingness."
14049,"Trembling, I was unable to continue to look through the glass with which I had watched the motion of the crew, when the frigate's boat had first been launched."
14050,"""Consider now the circumstance that in the outer garment of the corpse when found, 'a slip, about a foot wide had been torn upward from the bottom hem to the waist wound three times round the waist, and secured by a sort of hitch in the back.'"
14051,"But although the appearance of an infected town was avoided, to me, who had not beheld it since the commencement of the visitation, London appeared sufficiently changed."
14052,"And thus all narratives upon this topic have an interest profound; an interest, nevertheless, which, through the sacred awe of the topic itself, very properly and very peculiarly depends upon our conviction of the truth of the matter narrated."
14053,"Free I had but escaped death in one form of agony, to be delivered unto worse than death in some other."
14054,"I invited him to walk with me, and led him to a neighbouring wood of beech trees whose light shade shielded us from the slant and dazzling beams of the descending sun After walking for some time in silence I seated my self with him on a mossy hillock It is strange but even now I seem to see the spot the slim and smooth trunks were many of them wound round by ivy whose shining leaves of the darkest green contrasted with the white bark and the light leaves of the young sprouts of beech that grew from their parent trunks the short grass was mingled with moss and was partly covered by the dead leaves of the last autumn that driven by the winds had here and there collected in little hillocks there were a few moss grown stumps about The leaves were gently moved by the breeze and through their green canopy you could see the bright blue sky As evening came on the distant trunks were reddened by the sun and the wind died entirely away while a few birds flew past us to their evening rest."
14055,"""What was it anyhaow, an' haowever did young Wizard Whateley call it aout o' the air it come from?"""
14056,"I paused for breath; and, in the meantime, an accident occurred of too momentous a nature in a moral, and also in a metaphysical point of view, to be passed over without notice."
14057,"I was on one of the highest seats, and saw him walk up the passage to the table of the speaker."
14058,"In about an hour after my arrival, to be sure, a single shaded solar lamp was lit in the principal drawing room; and this apartment, I could thus see, was arranged with unusual good taste and even splendor; but two other rooms of the suite, and in which the company chiefly assembled, remained, during the whole evening, in a very agreeable shadow."
14059,"""Indeed you astonish me"" ""We found it, sir,"" he said, with a sigh, ""absolutely necessary to return to the old usages."
14060,Pundit is in ecstacies.
14061,"""Oh, do not listen to him,"" I cried, ""he speaks false false to himself,"" I was interrupted: and, silence being restored, we were ordered, as was the custom, to retire during the decision of the house."
14062,"""Those Whateleys meant to let them in, and the worst of all is left Tell Rice and Morgan we must do something it's a blind business, but I know how to make the powder. . . ."
14063,"With the best heart in the world, he contrived, through a predominant whim of contradiction, to earn for himself, among those who only knew him superficially, the character of a curmudgeon."
14064,"She had been proud of having won and preserved him but another had won him from her, and her exultation was as cold as a water quenched ember."
14065,"Listen to me, and let yourself be softened by words in which no selfish passion lingers."
14066,"They counted the garrison; it was impossible that it should be relieved; each sally was a victory; for, even when the Turks were triumphant, the loss of men they sustained was an irreparable injury."
14067,I could not refuse; for Clara was not an ordinary child; her sensibility and intelligence seemed already to have endowed her with the rights of womanhood.
14068,"From my position, which was far above the level of the town, I could perceive its every nook and corner, as if delineated on a map."
14069,In a few words I must conclude this tragedy.
14070,"In no instance before that of which I speak, have I known the habitual mystific escape the natural consequence of his manoevres an attachment of the ludicrous to his own character and person."
14071,"But, in fact, the one atrocity, known to be so committed, is, if any thing, evidence that the other, committed at a time nearly coincident, was not so committed."
14072,The only question then is of the manner in which human agency is brought to bear.
14073,"He not only shut his mouth and wagged his tail, but absolutely offered me his paw afterward extending his civilities to Ponto."
14074,"But they were the property of Adrian, the nurslings of Idris; and so, although my imagination rendered sensual by privation, made me think that they would better become the spit in my kitchen, than the green leaves of the forest, Nathelesse, I checked my haughty will, and did not eat; but supped upon sentiment, and dreamt vainly of ""such morsels sweet,"" as I might not waking attain."
14075,"Its condition was almost perfect, and one could have spent hours in studying the striking and puzzlingly untraditional designs some simply geometrical, and some plainly marine chased or moulded in high relief on its surface with a craftsmanship of incredible skill and grace."
14076,"To the truth of this observation the burgomaster assented, and the matter was therefore at an end."
14077,"That sunset was very beautiful, but the peasants at Ballylough had warned me against it and said that Kilderry had become accursed, so that I almost shuddered to see the high turrets of the castle gilded with fire."
14078,"There had been something wrong with the engine, despite the excellent time made from Newburyport, and the bus could not complete the journey to Arkham."
14079,"I can recall the scene in these final moments the pale autumnal moon over the graves, casting long horrible shadows; the grotesque trees, drooping sullenly to meet the neglected grass and the crumbling slabs; the vast legions of strangely colossal bats that flew against the moon; the antique ivied church pointing a huge spectral finger at the livid sky; the phosphorescent insects that danced like death fires under the yews in a distant corner; the odours of mould, vegetation, and less explicable things that mingled feebly with the night wind from over far swamps and seas; and worst of all, the faint deep toned baying of some gigantic hound which we could neither see nor definitely place."
14080,"""It was noon when I awoke, and allured by the warmth of the sun, which shone brightly on the white ground, I determined to recommence my travels; and, depositing the remains of the peasant's breakfast in a wallet I found, I proceeded across the fields for several hours, until at sunset I arrived at a village."
14081,"Doubtless you have both heard the current tale; perhaps believe the slander; but he is not mad Were an angel from the foot of God's throne to assert it, never, never would I believe it."
14082,"In fact, now that the idea of contest was dismissed, all hearts returned to their former respect and admiration of our accomplished friend."
14083,"""My amazement was, of course, extreme."
14084,My reward shall be this.
14085,"Once on a frosty day, pushed on by restless unsatisfying reflections, I sought a favourite haunt, a little wood not far distant from Salt Hill."
14086,"That which he considered chief, was strange to say the simple and purely physical one of free exercise in the open air."
14087,"This feeling of universal misery assumed concentration and shape, when I looked on my wife and children; and the thought of danger to them possessed my whole being with fear."
14088,And where does he now exist?
14089,"He has never seen Kingsport again, for his family disliked the funny old houses, and complained that the drains were impossibly bad."
14090,"I put her in one of these, and entered with her that I might secure her entrance into the hospital."
14091,"We scudded with frightful velocity before the sea, and the water made clear breaches over us."
14092,"Then I glimpsed the temple like effect again, but this time the pillars reached up into an aërial ocean of light, which sent down one blinding beam along the path of the cloudy column I had seen before."
14093,"But if these machines were ingenious, what shall we think of the calculating machine of Mr. Babbage?"
14094,"I had entered into the universal feeling I had been absorbed by the terrors of Rosse I re echoed the cry of Macduff, and then rushed out as from an hell of torture, to find calm in the free air and silent street."
14095,This his selected task was exchanged for the far different one of encountering the ruin caused by the convulsions of physical nature.
14096,There were no degrees which could break my fall from happiness to misery; it was as the stroke of lightning sudden and entire.
14097,It was with difficulty that he reconciled his dreamy and incoherent feelings with the certainty of being awake.
14098,"On this occasion I chanced to say that I thought Myrrha the best of Alfieri's tragedies; as I said this I chanced to cast my eyes on my father and met his: for the first time the expression of those beloved eyes displeased me, and I saw with affright that his whole frame shook with some concealed emotion that in spite of his efforts half conquered him: as this tempest faded from his soul he became melancholy and silent."
14099,"If pride guided you, or even reason, you might well reject me."
14100,How and why should I doubt it for an instant.
14101,"Time is no more, for I have stepped within the threshold of eternity; each man I meet appears a corse, which will soon be deserted of its animating spark, on the eve of decay and corruption."
14102,"The Turks resisted to the last, the garrison perished on the ramparts, and we entered by assault."
14103,"Mr. Ellison's first step regarded, of course, the choice of a locality, and scarcely had he commenced thinking on this point, when the luxuriant nature of the Pacific Islands arrested his attention."
14104,"Human it could not have been it is not in man to make such sounds and without a thought of our late employment or its possible discovery both West and I leaped to the nearest window like stricken animals; overturning tubes, lamp, and retorts, and vaulting madly into the starred abyss of the rural night."
14105,"It was always shadowy along that river, as if the smoke of neighbouring factories shut out the sun perpetually."
14106,"This hoary character, Zadok Allen, was ninety six years old and somewhat touched in the head, besides being the town drunkard."
14107,"Say, rather, a point in the vague infinity."
14108,"Above all, he was remorseless and unyielding in the pursuit of any object of desire, however lawless."
14109,"And as the torches died out altogether, there remained above the stricken and shrieking cohort only the noxious and horrible altar flames on the towering peaks; hellish and red, and now silhouetting the mad, leaping, and colossal forms of such nameless beasts as had never a Phrygian priest or Campanian grandam whispered of in the wildest of furtive tales."
14110,"A well dressed individual enters a shop, makes a purchase to the value of a dollar; finds, much to his vexation, that he has left his pocket book in another coat pocket; and so says to the shopkeeper ""My dear sir, never mind; just oblige me, will you, by sending the bundle home?"
14111,My Day book and Ledger will evince this in a minute.
14112,Evil thoughts became my sole intimates the darkest and most evil of thoughts.
14113,"In the mean time we were joined by Clara, whose pallid cheek and scared look shewed the deep impression grief had made on her young mind."
14114,In this lies the principal security from inhumation.
14115,"Pundit is the only conversible person on board; and he, poor soul can speak of nothing but antiquities."
14116,"I would obtain the truth from her the following day in the mean time But, while I was occupied by multiplying reflections, Lord Raymond returned."
14117,"And yet I am happy; mothers lament their children, wives lose their husbands, while you and my children are left to me."
14118,"Nevertheless, about noon, a slight but remarkable agitation became apparent in the assembly: the clattering of ten thousand tongues succeeded; and, in an instant afterward, ten thousand faces were upturned toward the heavens, ten thousand pipes descended simultaneously from the corners of ten thousand mouths, and a shout, which could be compared to nothing but the roaring of Niagara, resounded long, loudly, and furiously, through all the environs of Rotterdam."
14119,"He sat for some time inactive, nodding oddly, but having a paradoxical suggestion of intense and frightened listening."
14120,"What we want, we may make about us; and what we don't want, we may sweep away."
14121,Have you no brain whereby you may recognise the will which has through six long centuries fulfilled the dreadful curse upon your house?
14122,"He has already had one or two little WIVES, but Louisa Biron is his favourite, a pretty little girl of five years of age."
14123,The scene of my excavations would alone have been enough to unnerve any ordinary man.
14124,"Three years of folly, passed without profit, had but given me rooted habits of vice, and added, in a somewhat unusual degree, to my bodily stature, when, after a week of soulless dissipation, I invited a small party of the most dissolute students to a secret carousal in my chambers."
14125,"But we, the seven there assembled, having seen the shadow as it came out from among the draperies, dared not steadily behold it, but cast down our eyes, and gazed continually into the depths of the mirror of ebony."
14126,"I applied my glass, and could discern that the frigate had already cast anchor, fearful of the danger of approaching nearer to a lee shore: a boat was lowered; with a pang I saw that Raymond was unable to descend the vessel's side; he was let down in a chair, and lay wrapt in cloaks at the bottom of the boat."
14127,"Great watery spaces opened out before me, and I seemed to wander through titanic sunken porticos and labyrinths of weedy Cyclopean walls with grotesque fishes as my companions."
14128,"Have we not a perpetual inclination, in the teeth of our best judgment, to violate that which is Law, merely because we understand it to be such?"
14129,"The Englishman thinks it the voice of a German, and 'does not understand German.'"
14130,"It seems that in both instances the dying person, in a gentle old lady named Stafford and in a school teacher of middle age named Eleazar Durfee, became transfigured in a horrible way; glaring glassily and attempting to bite the throat of the attending physician."
14131,"Wilson's rebellion was to me a source of the greatest embarrassment; the more so as, in spite of the bravado with which in public I made a point of treating him and his pretensions, I secretly felt that I feared him, and could not help thinking the equality which he maintained so easily with myself, a proof of his true superiority; since not to be overcome cost me a perpetual struggle."
14132,I had certainly acted imprudently.
14133,"I made no doubt that the latter had been infected with some of the innumerable Southern superstitions about money buried, and that his phantasy had received confirmation by the finding of the scarabæus, or, perhaps, by Jupiter's obstinacy in maintaining it to be ""a bug of real gold."""
14134,I stay here; force only can remove me.
14135,"Talks with several students of archaic lore in Boston, and letters to many others elsewhere, gave him a growing amazement which passed slowly through varied degrees of alarm to a state of really acute spiritual fear."
14136,"Picking up my pack, I started for the crest of the eminence."
14137,"The criticism which says, of sculpture or portraiture, that here nature is to be exalted or idealized rather than imitated, is in error."
14138,"When I was otherwise quite restored to health, the sight of a chemical instrument would renew all the agony of my nervous symptoms."
14139,"Duty came first; and although there must have been nearly a hundred mongrel celebrants in the throng, the police relied on their firearms and plunged determinedly into the nauseous rout."
14140,To England and to Englishmen I dedicate myself.
14141,"The small room seemed green with a dim aqueous light, and Olney saw that the far windows to the east were not open, but shut against the misty aether with dull thick panes like the bottoms of old bottles."
14142,His demeanour would assume an unwonted grace and even dignity; and the sodden creatures around him would sense something of superiority something which made them less ready to give the usual kicks and cuffs to the poor butt and drudge.
14143,"If you are normal, that is the way you ought to get most of it . . ."
14144,"Putting on a mask of black silk, and drawing a roquelaire closely about my person, I suffered him to hurry me to my palazzo."
14145,"The apartments were restored to their pristine splendour, and the park, all disrepairs restored, was guarded with unusual care."
14146,"Then, on Wednesday, the great shock came."
14147,"Mr. Blackwood has a pair of tailor's shears, and three apprentices who stand by him for orders."
14148,"""Oh, shocking"" groaned the Earl."
14149,With him there is no determinate progression.
14150,"But though impenetrably veiled from him, his public office permitted her to become acquainted with all his actions, his daily course of life, even his conversation."
14151,"Looming hideously against the spectral moon was a gigantic misshapen thing not to be imagined save in nightmares a glassy eyed, ink black apparition nearly on all fours, covered with bits of mould, leaves, and vines, foul with caked blood, and having between its glistening teeth a snow white, terrible, cylindrical object terminating in a tiny hand."
14152,"Out the window I could see the blue water and the sandy line of Plum Island, and we presently drew very near the beach as our narrow road veered off from the main highway to Rowley and Ipswich."
14153,"Though of poetic rather than scientific temperament, he planned to continue the work of his forefathers in African ethnology and antiquities, utilising the truly wonderful though strange collection of Sir Wade."
14154,"It was the sight of Little Marlow, and my conversations with Martha, that led me to the plan I formed."
14155,"The slightest deviations from the true proportion and these deviations were omni prævalent affected me just as violations of abstract truth were wont, on earth, to affect the moral sense."
14156,Who shall conceive the horrors of my secret toil as I dabbled among the unhallowed damps of the grave or tortured the living animal to animate the lifeless clay?
14157,"She rushed towards him, she embraced him, blessing God for his preservation."
14158,His ordinary manner had vanished.
14159,"This being done, there is no reason why the body of the man may not resume its former situation for the cupboard is again so dark as to defy scrutiny."
14160,"While I was directing that the necessary care should be taken of her, Clara came in; she was trembling and pale; and, when I anxiously asked her the cause of her agitation, she threw herself into my arms weeping and exclaiming ""Uncle, dearest uncle, do not hate me for ever I must tell you, for you must know, that Evelyn, poor little Evelyn"" her voice was choked by sobs."
14161,There are surely other worlds than this other thoughts than the thoughts of the multitude other speculations than the speculations of the sophist.
14162,"""Glad ye was nigh the haouse en' hed the sense ta come right in."
14163,"Do you remember in her infancy, with what transport you beheld Clara, recognizing in her the united being of yourself and Raymond; joying to view in this living temple a manifestation of your eternal loves."
14164,"She perceived me, and looked up enquiringly; her half glance of hope was misery; the words died before I could articulate them; I felt a ghastly smile wrinkle my lips."
14165,Adrian welcomed us on our arrival.
14166,"When I told this dream to Barry we both laughed; but I laughed the louder, because he was perplexed about his labourers from the north."
14167,Is it not possible that the germ of an actual contagious madness lurks in the depths of that shadow over Innsmouth?
14168,"With angry gestures he leapt from his horse, and seizing a hatchet that hung from his saddle bow, went with the apparent intention of battering down the opposing gate."
14169,"As he picked up the strange spiky image on the table he thought the older northward pull grew a trifle stronger; but even so, it was wholly overruled by the newer and more bewildering urge."
14170,"There was no one in the soaking street, and in all the world there was no one I dared tell."
14171,My greatest dread was in re crossing broad and moonlit South Street with its seaward view and I had to nerve myself for the ordeal.
14172,There was a sound at the moment as if of several persons struggling a scraping and scuffling sound.
14173,"Lay down your arms, barbarous and cruel men men whose hands are stained with the blood of the innocent, whose souls are weighed down by the orphan's cry We shall conquer, for the right is on our side; already your cheeks are pale the weapons fall from your nerveless grasp."
14174,"He rode through the lines, charging the officers to restrain the troops, exhorting the soldiers, restoring order, and quieting in some degree the violent agitation that swelled every bosom."
14175,"""The result was precisely what I had hoped it might be."
14176,"Thus, when G detailed to us his mode of searching the premises at the Hotel D , I felt entire confidence in his having made a satisfactory investigation so far as his labors extended."""
14177,"The statuette, idol, fetish, or whatever it was, had been captured some months before in the wooded swamps south of New Orleans during a raid on a supposed voodoo meeting; and so singular and hideous were the rites connected with it, that the police could not but realise that they had stumbled on a dark cult totally unknown to them, and infinitely more diabolic than even the blackest of the African voodoo circles."
14178,"Yet, henceforward art thou also dead dead to the World, to Heaven and to Hope In me didst thou exist and, in my death, see by this image, which is thine own, how utterly thou hast murdered thyself."""
14179,"I thought the room and the books and the people very morbid and disquieting, but because an old tradition of my fathers had summoned me to strange feastings, I resolved to expect queer things."
14180,"Upon its front were characters engraven in the stone; and I walked through the morass of water lilies, until I came close unto the shore, that I might read the characters upon the stone."
14181,"But now the time is come when I may quit life, I have a friend who will not refuse to accompany me in this dark journey; such is my request: earnestly do I entreat and implore you to die with me."
14182,She devoted herself to those whom she had been taught to call her uncle and cousins.
14183,"They found the countryside in great agitation, both because of the growing rumblings beneath the domed hills, and because of the unwonted stench and the surging, lapping sounds which came increasingly from the great empty shell formed by Whateley's boarded up farmhouse."
14184,Miss Tabitha Turnip propagated that report through sheer envy.
14185,"For several years I had been subject to attacks of the singular disorder which physicians have agreed to term catalepsy, in default of a more definitive title."
14186,Around the first of April Gilman worried considerably because his slow fever did not abate.
14187,"He is name de Napoleon Bonaparte Froissart, and I suppose you say dat dat, too, is not von ver respectable name."""
14188,"I handed my adored wife out, and ordered breakfast forthwith."
14189,"But most of the men of Teloth yawned, and some laughed and some went away to sleep; for Iranon told nothing useful, singing only his memories, his dreams, and his hopes."
14190,"The revolution itself must, of course, have taken place in an easy and gradual manner, and it is by no means clear that, had I even been awake at the time of the occurrence, I should have been made aware of it by any internal evidence of an inversion that is to say, by any inconvenience or disarrangement, either about my person or about my apparatus."
14191,She presented all the ordinary appearances of death.
14192,"This was to be my realm, too I could not escape it."
14193,"At Paris, just after dark one gusty evening in the autumn of , I was enjoying the twofold luxury of meditation and a meerschaum, in company with my friend C. Auguste Dupin, in his little back library, or book closet, au troisiême, No. , Rue Dunôt, Faubourg St. Germain."
14194,"The crone now motioned him to hold the bowl in a certain position while she raised the huge, grotesque knife above the small white victim as high as her right hand could reach."
14195,"South of him the frightful precipice above Kingsport, north of him the vertical drop of nearly a mile to the river's mouth."
14196,"If the band played, involuntarily they chose airs of moderated passion; the farewell of love, or lament at absence, was followed and closed by some solemn hymn, which harmonized with the tranquil loveliness of evening, and elevated the soul to grand and religious thought."
14197,"Grey headed men, ye hoped for yet a few years in your long known abode but the lease is up, you must remove children, ye will never reach maturity, even now the small grave is dug for ye mothers, clasp them in your arms, one death embraces you"" Shuddering, he stretched out his hands, his eyes cast up, seemed bursting from their sockets, while he appeared to follow shapes, to us invisible, in the yielding air ""There they are,"" he cried, ""the dead They rise in their shrouds, and pass in silent procession towards the far land of their doom their bloodless lips move not their shadowy limbs are void of motion, while still they glide onwards."
14198,"You have spoken nothing, my Oinos, for which pardon is to be demanded."
14199,"Ven I go marry my segonde usbande, Monsieur Lalande, at dat time I had de portraite take for my daughter by my first usbande, Monsieur Moissart"" ""Moissart"" said I. ""Yes, Moissart,"" said she, mimicking my pronunciation, which, to speak the truth, was none of the best, ""and vat den?"
14200,"We copy the following account of it from the Letters before mentioned of Dr. B., who derived his information principally from the Edinburgh Encyclopaedia."
14201,"I found difficulty in moving toward the stair well, but when I did get there I found no crushed body on the floor below."
14202,"Again, with a gush of pride and delight, she marked in the features of her little girl, the same smile of beauty that often irradiated Raymond's countenance."
14203,I know not; despair had not yet taken possession of me; my feelings were those of rage and revenge.
14204,"""of Chantilly,"" said he, ""why do you pause?"
14205,"Heh, heh Nobody never believes me naow when I tell 'em, an' I dun't s'pose you will, young feller though come to look at ye, ye hev kind o' got them sharp readin' eyes like Obed had."""
14206,"Fortunately we had storage batteries still capable of long use, both for interior lighting and for the searchlight."
14207,Yet it remained tense through anxiety for me.
14208,"""About a foot below one of the side windows was a circular opening, eight inches in diameter, and fitted with a brass rim adapted in its inner edge to the windings of a screw."
14209,"Hieroglyphics had covered the walls and pillars, and from some undetermined point below had come a voice that was not a voice; a chaotic sensation which only fancy could transmute into sound, but which he attempted to render by the almost unpronounceable jumble of letters, ""Cthulhu fhtagn""."
14210,"I am but half a soldier; I love the renown, but not the trade of war."
14211,"After the lapse of a few weeks, we left Dunkeld."
14212,"Having conquered the violence of his feelings, he appeared to despise himself for being the slave of passion; and quelling the dark tyranny of despair, he led me again to converse concerning myself personally."
14213,"As soon as he had gammoned him sufficiently, he let him out, and sent him about his business."""
14214,"There are some passages of his description, nevertheless, which may be quoted for their details, although their effect is exceedingly feeble in conveying an impression of the spectacle."
14215,"Ryland was the popular candidate; when Lord Raymond was first added to the list, his chance of success appeared small."
14216,"For an impersonal doctor, Davis' ominous and awestruck cross examination became very strange indeed as he sought to drain from the weakened undertaker every least detail of his horrible experience."
14217,"""They built a wall between them and the world"" Without, a thousand harpies raved, remorse and misery, expecting the destined moment for their invasion."
14218,"Any one so constituted will readily so conduct himself, upon occasion of real excitement, as to render himself liable to suspicion on the part of the over acute, or the ill disposed."
14219,"In taking leave of me, Mr. B. made a proposition for the purchase of the paper when written; but as he could offer me only fifty guineas a sheet, I thought it better to let our society have it, than sacrifice it for so paltry a sum."
14220,The touch of brain fever and the dreams began early in February.
14221,"So once more the White Ship followed the bird of heaven, over warm blessed seas fanned by caressing, aromatic breezes."
14222,"""This suspense is a thousand times worse than the most horrible event; tell me what new scene of death has been acted, and whose murder I am now to lament?"" ""Your family is perfectly well,"" said Mr. Kirwin with gentleness; ""and someone, a friend, is come to visit you."""
14223,"Once or twice I saw listless looking people working in barren gardens or digging clams on the fishy smelling beach below, and groups of dirty, simian visaged children playing around weed grown doorsteps."
14224,He personated his assumption of innocence even to self deception.
14225,The rubbish on the floor was picked up with the minutest care.
14226,"I attempted to speak, but the words died away on my lips."
14227,Why do you not execrate the rustic who sought to destroy the saviour of his child?
14228,"One night he went flying over dark mountains where there were faint, lone campfires at great distances apart, and strange, shaggy herds with tinkling bells on the leaders; and in the wildest part of this hilly country, so remote that few men could ever have seen it, he found a hideously ancient wall or causeway of stone zigzagging along the ridges and valleys; too gigantic ever to have risen by human hands, and of such a length that neither end of it could be seen."
14229,My rather original ideas regarding life and death had caused me to associate the cold clay with the breathing body in a vague fashion; and I felt that the great and sinister family of the burned down mansion was in some way represented within the stone space I sought to explore.
14230,"In ten minutes my mind was made up, and taking my hat I set out for home, where I bathed, ate, and gave by telephone an order for a pickaxe, a spade, a military gas mask, and six carboys of sulphuric acid, all to be delivered the next morning at the cellar door of the shunned house in Benefit Street."
14231,His reputation so he said with a peculiarly Parisian air was at stake.
14232,"In my first attempts at composition I found the stanzas to ""The Oil of Bob"" rather a draw back than otherwise."
14233,At last we lost sight of Plum Island and saw the vast expanse of the open Atlantic on our left.
14234,"They met the things on the little islet with the queer ruins, an' it seems them awful picters o' frog fish monsters was supposed to be picters o' these things."
14235,"It was I who fled frantically out of Innsmouth in the early morning hours of July , , and whose frightened appeals for government inquiry and action brought on the whole reported episode."
14236,"To return was out of the question, and no time was to be lost, as their pursuers were close upon their heels."
14237,"Not even the mines of precious metal remained, for DOOM had come to Sarnath."
14238,"I told you the servants left, but I didn't tell you how."
14239,"At first the syllables defied all correlation with any speech of earth, but toward the last there came some disjointed fragments evidently taken from the Necronomicon, that monstrous blasphemy in quest of which the thing had perished."
14240,"""Ah, hereupon turns the whole mystery; although the secret, at this point, I had comparatively little difficulty in solving."
14241,"Sleep was not sleep, for her waking thoughts, bridled by some remains of reason, and by the sight of her children happy and in health, were then transformed to wild dreams, all her terrors were realized, all her fears received their dread fulfilment."
14242,There can be no doubt that the consciousness of the rapid increase of my superstition for why should I not so term it?
14243,"By eleven, very little labor was necessary at the apparatus; and at twelve o'clock, with some hesitation, I ventured to unscrew the tourniquet, when, finding no inconvenience from having done so, I finally threw open the gum elastic chamber, and unrigged it from around the car."
14244,"It was possible, I thought, that, concealed in some obscure corner, or lurking in some closet or drawer, might be found the lost object of my inquiry."
14245,"The truth is, I never dabbled in flashy matters, but jogged on in the good old sober routine of the calling a calling in which I should, no doubt, have remained to the present hour, but for a little accident which happened to me in the prosecution of one of the usual business operations of the profession."
14246,"He looked on the peasant, who began to tremble, while he still gazed; his knees knocked together; his teeth chattered."
14247,"As soon as I sufficiently recovered my senses to comprehend the terrific predicament in which I stood or rather hung, I exerted all the power of my lungs to make that predicament known to the æronaut overhead."
14248,So far good but let us turn over another paper.
14249,"I continued walking in this manner for some time, endeavouring by bodily exercise to ease the load that weighed upon my mind."
14250,"The country people in the neighborhood visitors coming to see the establishment would have given the alarm."""
14251,This tiara was neither.
14252,"I dwelt upon it with a pertinacity of attention as if, in so dwelling, I could arrest here the descent of the steel."
14253,There was no way the law or anything else could reach the society.
14254,But since those glorious years all is changed.
14255,"When you have read these hastily scrawled pages you may guess, though never fully realise, why it is that I must have forgetfulness or death."
14256,"Showed that, I should say, to some purpose, in the late tremendous swamp fight away down South, with the Bugaboo and Kickapoo Indians."""
14257,"WE are not to be insulted with impunity."""
14258,"A sense of duty to science is all that impels me to recall, in these last years of my life, scenes and happenings fraught with a terror doubly acute because I cannot wholly define it."
14259,"I approached and saw, as if graven in bas relief upon the white surface, the figure of a gigantic cat."
14260,"These, although of ordinary width for some eight or ten feet above the hearths, will not admit, throughout their extent, the body of a large cat."
14261,Death approaches; and the shadow which foreruns him has thrown a softening influence over my spirit.
14262,"The man had now admitted that he sometimes talked queerly, though he knew not why."
14263,"You perceive, then, why it is that I write you this letter it is on account of my ennui and your sins."
14264,"Here is a watercolor drawing, which I should have shown you before, but which an unaccountable sentiment of horror has hitherto prevented me from showing."""
14265,"Near the hut, close to a rather unusual rock fissure, had lain two skeletons, newly picked by vultures, and presumably forming the sole remains of his parents."
14266,"I knew not who I was or what I was, or what my surroundings might be; though as I continued to stumble along I became conscious of a kind of fearsome latent memory that made my progress not wholly fortuitous."
14267,"But the little chap seized him at once by the nose; gave it a swing and a pull; clapped the big chapeau de bras upon his head; knocked it down over his eyes and mouth; and then, lifting up the big fiddle, beat him with it so long and so soundly, that what with the belfry man being so fat, and the fiddle being so hollow, you would have sworn that there was a regiment of double bass drummers all beating the devil's tattoo up in the belfry of the steeple of Vondervotteimittiss."
14268,"Nearly mad, I found myself yet able to throw out a hand to ward off the foetid apparition which pressed so close; when in one cataclysmic second of cosmic nightmarishness and hellish accident my fingers touched the rotting outstretched paw of the monster beneath the golden arch."
14269,"But now, at last, he had not only found an accessible copy but had made it his own at a ludicrously low figure."
14270,"When I had accomplished this, it was fully midnight, and I requested the gentlemen present to examine M. Valdemar's condition."
14271,"Why, all his virtues are derived from his station only; because he is rich, he is called generous; because he is powerful, brave; because he is well served, he is affable."
14272,Yet I dreaded to witness the anguish which my resolve might excite in Idris.
14273,Had my eyes deceived me?
14274,Leaves the Square front of Hammond's Drug Store at a.m. and p.m. unless they've changed lately.
14275,"I was troubled; a mist came over my eyes, and I felt a faintness seize me, but I was quickly restored by the cold gale of the mountains."
14276,"Like Adam, I was apparently united by no link to any other being in existence; but his state was far different from mine in every other respect."
14277,"Professor Rice declares that he wholly lost consciousness for an instant, though he did not stumble or fall."
14278,"At these moments I often endeavoured to put an end to the existence I loathed, and it required unceasing attendance and vigilance to restrain me from committing some dreadful act of violence."
14279,"It had run down at seven o'clock We were behind the time of the slack, and the whirl of the Ström was in full fury ""When a boat is well built, properly trimmed, and not deep laden, the waves in a strong gale, when she is going large, seem always to slip from beneath her which appears very strange to a landsman and this is what is called riding, in sea phrase."
14280,"I dun't think he aimed at fust to do no mixin', nor raise no younguns to take to the water an' turn into fishes with eternal life."
14281,"After so much time spent in painful labour, to arrive at once at the summit of my desires was the most gratifying consummation of my toils."
14282,He had come in an aëroplane piloted by the intrepid Lieut.
14283,"There is a countenance which haunts me, turn as I will."
14284,"In looking around me for some subject by whose means I might test these particulars, I was brought to think of my friend, M. Ernest Valdemar, the well known compiler of the ""Bibliotheca Forensica,"" and author under the nom de plume of Issachar Marx of the Polish versions of ""Wallenstein"" and ""Gargantua."""
14285,"In the same way, the angle formed by the rope with the vertical axis of the machine, indicates the velocity."
14286,"""Henri Duval, a neighbor, and by trade a silver smith, deposes that he was one of the party who first entered the house."
14287,"Nothing was heard for some time; just how long Soames cannot exactly estimate; but it was certainly less than a quarter of an hour later that the horrible scream, undoubtedly in Jermyn's voice, was heard."
14288,"We French are not nearly so punctilious as you Americans, and I shall have no difficulty in smuggling you in, in the character of an old acquaintance."""
14289,"The Greeks wept for joy when they beheld the Mediterranean from the hills of Asia, and hailed with rapture the boundary of their toils."
14290,"""You have travelled; you have spent several years of your life at Ingolstadt; and I confess to you, my friend, that when I saw you last autumn so unhappy, flying to solitude from the society of every creature, I could not help supposing that you might regret our connection and believe yourself bound in honour to fulfil the wishes of your parents, although they opposed themselves to your inclinations."
14291,"However it might be just as well to roll him once or twice in the gutter, and then put him in charge of the police."
14292,"Mrs. Wyatt had been closely veiled; and when she raised her veil, in acknowledging my bow, I confess that I was very profoundly astonished."
14293,She took me under her protection because she considered it her duty; but she had too long lived alone and undisturbed by the noise and prattle of children to allow that I should disturb her quiet.
14294,"The manuscript was divided into two sections, the first of which was headed "" Dream and Dream Work of H. A. Wilcox, Thomas St., Providence, R.I."", and the second, ""Narrative of Inspector John R. Legrasse, Bienville St., New Orleans, La., at A. A. S. Mtg."
14295,"But I was saved by the very thunder that had summoned it, for after a hideous wait there burst from the unseen outside sky one of those frequent mountainward bolts whose aftermath I had noticed here and there as gashes of disturbed earth and fulgurites of various sizes."
14296,"It was his twin brother, but it looked more like the father than he did."""
14297,"The immediate peril urged them to seize the immediate opportunity; wildly and passionately they sought to know what delights existence afforded, before they yielded to death, and Snatching their pleasures with rough strife Thorough the iron gates of life, they defied the conquering pestilence to destroy what had been, or to erase even from their death bed thoughts the sentiment of happiness which had been theirs."
14298,"There were recent rumours, too, with a baffling and disconcerting amount of agreement."
14299,"I was unwilling to trust myself with a race of people who had offered, to the cursory glance I had taken, so many points of vague novelty, doubt, and apprehension."
14300,I mentioned some time ago the bending of a studding sail.
14301,"Later it developed that he was none other than Lord Northam, of whose ancient hereditary castle on the Yorkshire coast so many odd things were told; but when Williams tried to talk of the castle, and of its reputed Roman origin, he refused to admit that there was anything unusual about it."
14302,My hand was already on the lock of the door before I recollected myself.
14303,"Yet, strange to say, I beheld vast level regions of a character decidedly alluvial, although by far the greater portion of the hemisphere in sight was covered with innumerable volcanic mountains, conical in shape, and having more the appearance of artificial than of natural protuberance."
14304,But perhaps it would be as well that he should call again.
14305,It is a matter of course.
14306,"As his argument is obviously an ex parte one, he should, at least, have left this matter out of sight; for had any one been known to see Marie, say on Monday, or on Tuesday, the interval in question would have been much reduced, and, by his own ratiocination, the probability much diminished of the corpse being that of the grisette."
14307,He endeavours to fill me with hope and talks as if life were a possession which he valued.
14308,"The magic of a lovely form in woman the necromancy of female gracefulness was always a power which I had found it impossible to resist, but here was grace personified, incarnate, the beau ideal of my wildest and most enthusiastic visions."
14309,"When we saw them from the rear of the house, they were both about half open that is to say, they stood off at right angles from the wall."
14310,"""Be happy, my dear Victor,"" replied Elizabeth; ""there is, I hope, nothing to distress you; and be assured that if a lively joy is not painted in my face, my heart is contented."
14311,He seemed to cherish a mild grief and softer emotions although sad as a relief from despair He contrived in many ways to nurse his melancholy as an antidote to wilder passion.
14312,"The attachment between them led to the ill fated marriage, of which I was the offspring."
14313,"What a sea is the tide of passion, whose fountains are in our own nature Our virtues are the quick sands, which shew themselves at calm and low water; but let the waves arise and the winds buffet them, and the poor devil whose hope was in their durability, finds them sink from under him."
14314,"In the chaos of sliding, shifting earth I clawed and floundered helplessly till the rain on my head steadied me and I saw that I had come to the surface in a familiar spot; a steep unforested place on the southwest slope of the mountain."
14315,His brow was of the coldness of ice.
14316,It was in one of the most open and least frequented parts of the broad Pacific that the packet of which I was supercargo fell a victim to the German sea raider.
14317,"To tear a piece off from such fabric, two distinct forces, in different directions, will be, in almost every case, required."
14318,"""No what?"" said his majesty ""come, sir, strip"" ""Strip, indeed very pretty i' faith no, sir, I shall not strip."
14319,"There was much of the beautiful, much of the wanton, much of the bizarre, something of the terrible, and not a little of that which might have excited disgust."
14320,"Come to the window and be quiet."""
14321,"And you, my friend, would be far more amused with the journal of Clerval, who observed the scenery with an eye of feeling and delight, than in listening to my reflections."
14322,"""Now if you're game, I'll take you there tonight."
14323,Such a thing was surely not a physical or biochemical impossibility in the light of a newer science which includes the theories of relativity and intra atomic action.
14324,"I guess they're what they call 'white trash' down South lawless and sly, and full of secret doings."
14325,"Why do you not hate Felix, who drove his friend from his door with contumely?"
14326,"Grecian maidens will in devotion strew flowers on his tomb, and make the air around it resonant with patriotic hymns, in which his name will find high record."""
14327,"""Und you ave pelief in me, te Angel of te Odd?"" I nodded again."
14328,But these struggles and these gasps would not occur in the body 'thrown into the water immediately after death by violence.'
14329,"Notwithstanding the good offices of the Doctor, and the strenuous exertions of the association to get itself into notice, it met with no very great success until I joined it."
14330,"The horror would appear to pop out of the rat hole in the corner and patter toward him over the sagging, wide planked floor with evil expectancy in its tiny, bearded human face but mercifully, this dream always melted away before the object got close enough to nuzzle him."
14331,Armington helped Birch to the outside of a spare bed and sent his little son Edwin for Dr. Davis.
14332,But I must put you au fait to the details necessary in composing what may be denominated a genuine Blackwood article of the sensation stamp the kind which you will understand me to say I consider the best for all purposes.
14333,"Although I pronounced, with great promptness, that the true title was Man Friday, and not by any means Man Fred, yet when I returned to seek Mrs."
14334,"Old, white bearded, and ragged, my host possessed a countenance and physique which inspired equal wonder and respect."
14335,"Sometimes a lone poet or traveller would come to view them, and would try to picture them in their vanished glory; yet of such travellers and poets there were not many."
14336,"This morrow at last came, that is to say, a day finally dawned upon a long and weary night of impatience; and then the hours until ""one"" were snail paced, dreary, and innumerable."
14337,"He did not say that he should favour such an attempt; but he did say that such an attempt would be venial; and, if the aspirant did not go so far as to declare war, and erect a standard in the kingdom, his fault ought to be regarded with an indulgent eye."
14338,It impressed me deeply.
14339,"Shortly after sunrise, I found myself accordingly at his Palazzo, one of those huge structures of gloomy, yet fantastic pomp, which tower above the waters of the Grand Canal in the vicinity of the Rialto."
14340,My friends are about holding a little musical levee.
14341,"Armitage, half ready to tell him he might make a copy of what parts he needed, thought suddenly of the possible consequences and checked himself."
14342,"The Turk, amazed and delighted, endeavoured to kindle the zeal of his deliverer by promises of reward and wealth."
14343,"This late winter night there had been such a match; evidently with disastrous results, since two timorous Poles had come to us with incoherently whispered entreaties to attend to a very secret and desperate case."
14344,At this impatience she smiled.
14345,"In the morning I had been reading Glover's ""Leonidas,"" Wilkie's ""Epigoniad,"" Lamartine's ""Pilgrimage,"" Barlow's ""Columbiad,"" Tuckermann's ""Sicily,"" and Griswold's ""Curiosities""; I am willing to confess, therefore, that I now felt a little stupid."
14346,"And then, by some miracle finding the door and the large wooden bolt, I plunged wildly away from that glassy eyed thing in the dark, and from the ghoulish howling of that accursed viol whose fury increased even as I plunged."
14347,I remembered also the necessity imposed upon me of either journeying to England or entering into a long correspondence with those philosophers of that country whose knowledge and discoveries were of indispensable use to me in my present undertaking.
14348,The elastic nature of the clasp garter is self demonstration of the unusualness of the abbreviation.
14349,"Having lost these artificial settings, their lives grew void of direction and dramatic interest; till at length they strove to drown their ennui in bustle and pretended usefulness, noise and excitement, barbaric display and animal sensation."
14350,"Thus it is evident that we can assign no period, with any thing like accuracy, at which the corpse shall rise through decomposition."
14351,"It is the loveliest thing in creation"" ""What?"
14352,"Whether he professes to play chess or not, we are not informed."
14353,From the moment of my mother's death untill his departure she never heard him utter a single word: buried in the deepest melancholy he took no notice of any one; often for hours his eyes streamed tears or a more fearful gloom overpowered him.
14354,I saw that the crescent was designed to cross the region of the heart.
14355,I believe that without the slightest tinge of a bad heart she had the coldest that ever filled a human breast: it was totally incapable of any affection.
14356,"""It was Asaph's coffin, Birch, just as I thought I knew his teeth, with the front ones missing on the upper jaw never, for God's sake, shew those wounds The body was pretty badly gone, but if ever I saw vindictiveness on any face or former face. . . ."
14357,"The place had dispirited me curiously that evening, and I was almost prepared when I saw or thought I saw amidst the whitish deposits a particularly sharp definition of the ""huddled form"" I had suspected from boyhood."
14358,"Besides, they really knew very little; for wide salt marshes, desolate and unpeopled, keep neighbours off from Innsmouth on the landward side."
14359,"This one consisted in a forehead so unusually and hideously lofty, as to have the appearance of a bonnet or crown of flesh superadded upon the natural head."
14360,These people blinded themselves by details.
14361,"I think that the professor, too, intended to keep silent regarding the part he knew, and that he would have destroyed his notes had not sudden death seized him."
14362,"The figure before me was short but exquisitely proportioned, and clad in somewhat formal dress of perfect cut and fit."
14363,"They darted almost noiselessly through the underbrush, and the astonished watcher seemed to think they were entirely unclothed."
14364,"When they proceeded on the path of the Ram, their course was scarcely as straight as a ram's horn, for they never had an axiom which was an axiom at all."
14365,"You know, in ordinary art, there's all the difference in the world between the vital, breathing things drawn from Nature or models and the artificial truck that commercial small fry reel off in a bare studio by rule."
14366,The crew pace the deck with unquiet and tremulous step; but there is upon their countenances an expression more of the eagerness of hope than of the apathy of despair.
14367,"Would I not like the guidance of one long practiced in these explorations, and possessed of local information profoundly deeper than any which an obvious newcomer could possibly have gained?"
14368,"But she has confessed."""
14369,"Our vessels truly were the sport of winds and waves, even as Gulliver was the toy of the Brobdignagians; but we on our stable abode could not be hurt in life or limb by these eruptions of nature."
14370,"Instead, he pondered deeply, and made many plans for the following day."
14371,"He himself was generally as terrified and baffled as his auditors, and within an hour after awakening would forget all that he had said, or at least all that had caused him to say what he did; relapsing into a bovine, half amiable normality like that of the other hill dwellers."
14372,"I have lost you, myself, my life"" ""Do you not believe me?"" said Raymond haughtily."
14373,"Granting that on my passage I should meet with atmosphere essentially the same as at the surface of the earth, I conceived that, by means of the very ingenious apparatus of M. Grimm, I should readily be enabled to condense it in sufficient quantity for the purposes of respiration."
14374,"By the way, talking of Latin, can any one tell me the meaning of quocunque or what is the meaning of modo?"
14375,"The wind shrieked more horribly, and both the Syracusans and the Arcadians prayed to Aiolos."
14376,"In a squalid thieves' den an entire family had been torn to shreds by an unknown thing which left no trace, and those around had heard all night above the usual clamour of drunken voices a faint, deep, insistent note as of a gigantic hound."
14377,"I intend to be a warrior, a conqueror; Napoleon's name shall vail to mine; and enthusiasts, instead of visiting his rocky grave, and exalting the merits of the fallen, shall adore my majesty, and magnify my illustrious achievements."""
14378,"Looking for the youth Vercellius, our guide, we found only a crumpled heap weltering in a pool of blood."
14379,"Outside the window the shrilling of the whippoorwills had suddenly ceased, and above the murmurs of the gathering crowd there came the sound of a panic struck whirring and fluttering."
14380,"He professed excessive astonishment, of course, but congratulated me most cordially, and proffered every assistance in his power."
14381,"And one night a mighty gulf was bridged, and the dream haunted skies swelled down to the lonely watcher's window to merge with the close air of his room and make him a part of their fabulous wonder."
14382,"In fact, the blood so long accumulating in the vessels of my head and throat, and which had hitherto buoyed up my spirits with madness and delirium, had now begun to retire within their proper channels, and the distinctness which was thus added to my perception of the danger, merely served to deprive me of the self possession and courage to encounter it."
14383,"I know that light is not for me, save that of the moon over the rock tombs of Neb, nor any gaiety save the unnamed feasts of Nitokris beneath the Great Pyramid; yet in my new wildness and freedom I almost welcome the bitterness of alienage."
14384,"She entered the cottages of the sick; she relieved their wants with her own hand; she betrayed no fear, and inspired all who saw her with some portion of her own native courage."
14385,A diplomatist: one among the pleasure seeking society of a gay city; a youth of promise; favourite of the Ambassador.
14386,"The market place is empty, the candidate for popular favour finds none whom he can represent."
14387,"The other exalted personages whom you behold are all of our family, and wear the insignia of the blood royal under the respective titles of 'His Grace the Arch Duke Pest Iferous' 'His Grace the Duke Pest Ilential' 'His Grace the Duke Tem Pest' and 'Her Serene Highness the Arch Duchess Ana Pest.' ""As regards,"" continued he, ""your demand of the business upon which we sit here in council, we might be pardoned for replying that it concerns, and concerns alone, our own private and regal interest, and is in no manner important to any other than ourself."
14388,"Fool, they are harmless But the servants are gone, aren't they?"
14389,"Conceive, closely congregated, a million of the largest and most resplendent tulips Only thus can the reader get any idea of the picture I would convey."
14390,Meanwhile all went on well in London.
14391,"I did not like it, and debated whether I had better try to sleep at all."
14392,"Last night had a fine view of Alpha Lyrae, whose disk, through our captain's spy glass, subtends an angle of half a degree, looking very much as our sun does to the naked eye on a misty day."
14393,Was sure that they had no servant in employ.
14394,"It terminated like the former; though something approaching to a ray, we could not tell whence, shed a very doubtful twilight in the space."
14395,"In groping my way around the prison, I could not fail to encounter this rag upon completing the circuit."
14396,"In good time came to my rescue the spirit of despair, and, with frantic cries and struggles, I jerked my way bodily upwards, till at length, clutching with a vise like grip the long desired rim, I writhed my person over it, and fell headlong and shuddering within the car."
14397,He secluded himself as much as the duties of his station permitted.
14398,"Idris hardly recognized the fragile being, whose form had seemed to bend even to the summer breeze, in the energetic man, whose very excess of sensibility rendered him more capable of fulfilling his station of pilot in storm tossed England."
14399,"Begging me to be seated, he entered at once upon the subject of my poem; but modesty will ever forbid me to repeat the thousand compliments which he lavished upon me."
14400,Raymond replied; but there was nothing conciliatory in his reply.
14401,"This claim she resisted, and a judicial tribunal sustained her in her resistance, deciding that the peculiar circumstances, with the long lapse of years, had extinguished, not only equitably, but legally, the authority of the husband."
14402,This spot had for me peculiar charms.
14403,"He had dipped in the ""Diable"" of Abbé Gualtier."
14404,"In his hand was a short sword snatched from the belt of D. Vibulanus, a subcenturio, and on his face was such a look of terror that the stoutest veterans turned pale at the sight."
14405,At first he refused to stay to hear her.
14406,"The love that is the soul of friendship is a soft spirit seldom found except when two amiable creatures are knit from early youth, or when bound by mutual suffering and pursuits; it comes to some of the elect unsought and unaware; it descends as gentle dew on chosen spots which however barren they were before become under its benign influence fertile in all sweet plants; but when desired it flies; it scoffs at the prayers of its votaries; it will bestow, but not be sought."
14407,"This no human creature may do; for lacking the fellowship of the living, he inevitably draws upon the companionship of things that are not, or are no longer, living."
14408,"I went so far as to talk casually to Barry on the subject, but did not dare continue after he gave his resounding laugh."
14409,"""And now I do not fear death."
14410,"Thus years passed on; and years only added fresh love of freedom, and contempt for all that was not as wild and rude as myself."
14411,"The nearness of this place to London was such, as to take away the idea of painful separation, when we quitted Raymond and Perdita."
14412,His sole thought is immediate escape.
14413,It was very certain that I could not do without sleep; but I might easily bring myself to feel no inconvenience from being awakened at intervals of an hour during the whole period of my repose.
14414,"No more than any other talent, is that for music susceptible of complete enjoyment, where there is no second party to appreciate its exercise."
14415,"The ringing became more distinct: It continued and became more distinct: I talked more freely to get rid of the feeling: but it continued and gained definiteness until, at length, I found that the noise was not within my ears."
14416,"A murder so mysterious, and so perplexing in all its particulars, was never before committed in Paris if indeed a murder has been committed at all."
14417,"""Hem ahem rather civil that, I should say"" said the bundle, in one of the smallest, and altogether the funniest little voices, between a squeak and a whistle, that I ever heard in all the days of my existence."
14418,"This hope arose partly from memory, and partly from present observation."
14419,"I was glad I had chosen to walk, for the white village had seemed very beautiful from the hill; and now I was eager to knock at the door of my people, the seventh house on the left in Green Lane, with an ancient peaked roof and jutting second story, all built before ."
14420,"During the colder months there was a general rush to London in search of amusement the ties of public opinion were loosened; many were rich, heretofore poor many had lost father and mother, the guardians of their morals, their mentors and restraints."
14421,"As I entered the abode of the friend so suddenly metamorphosed to a shivering gargoyle, I became infected with the terror which seemed stalking in all the shadows."
14422,"The truth is, we are usually the recipients in such case."""
14423,"My uncle will send me news of your health, and if I see but one smile on your lips when we meet, occasioned by this or any other exertion of mine, I shall need no other happiness."
14424,"Merrival did not join in this conversation; drawing near Idris, he proceeded to assure her that the joyful prospect of an earthly paradise after an hundred thousand years, was clouded to him by the knowledge that in a certain period of time after, an earthly hell or purgatory, would occur, when the ecliptic and equator would be at right angles."
14425,"I brought them, however, after some trouble, at right angles to the body of the buckle, and was glad to find them remain firm in that position."
14426,It was one of those lovely winter days which assert the capacity of nature to bestow beauty on barrenness.
14427,"Unable to endure the aspect of the being I had created, I rushed out of the room and continued a long time traversing my bed chamber, unable to compose my mind to sleep."
14428,Briden pushed at the stone in several places without result.
14429,"I had never seen the good old negro look so dispirited, and I feared that some serious disaster had befallen my friend."
14430,"It is true that the necessaries of life were assembled in such quantities, as to supply to superfluity the wants of the diminished population; but still much labour was required to arrange these, as it were, raw materials; and depressed by sickness, and fearful of the future, we had not energy to enter boldly and decidedly on any system."
14431,"Sometimes she remembered that she had suffered keen anguish, when he hesitated in his choice."
14432,"Extinguishing all lights, we proceeded to the door and threw it suddenly open; whereupon we felt an unaccountable rush of air, and heard as if receding far away a queer combination of rustling, tittering, and articulate chatter."
14433,The number it had killed was fourteen; three of the bodies had been in stricken homes and had not been alive.
14434,They lasted for several minutes probably ten.
14435,"The grass wore the deep tint of the cypress, and the heads of its blades hung droopingly, and hither and thither among it were many small unsightly hillocks, low and narrow, and not very long, that had the aspect of graves, but were not; although over and all about them the rue and the rosemary clambered."
14436,"Queer old duck, though, and sticks mighty close in his home."
14437,"""Questo poi, no,"" said the wild looking savage, who held the torch; ""you can advance but a short distance, and nobody visits it."""
14438,He had never wronged me.
14439,"No no me miserable; for love extinct there is no resurrection ""Yet I love you."
14440,"I have read of mourners in ancient days, who clothed themselves in sackcloth, scattered dust upon their heads, ate their bread mingled with ashes, and took up their abode on the bleak mountain tops, reproaching heaven and earth aloud with their misfortunes."
14441,"Some was more teched than others, an' some never did change quite enough to take to the water; but mostly they turned aout jest the way them things said."
14442,"The Spaniard 'is sure' that it was that of an Englishman, but 'judges by the intonation' altogether, 'as he has no knowledge of the English.'"
14443,The panes here were scarlet a deep blood color.
14444,The fear of immediate death vanished with the heats of September.
14445,"To these Quixotic notions some recent Parisian publications, backed by three or four desperate and fatal conversation, during the greater part of the night, had run wild upon the all engrossing topic of the times."
14446,"It was generally stated that the affliction and shock were results of an unlucky slip whereby Birch had locked himself for nine hours in the receiving tomb of Peck Valley Cemetery, escaping only by crude and disastrous mechanical means; but while this much was undoubtedly true, there were other and blacker things which the man used to whisper to me in his drunken delirium toward the last."
14447,"But my plan was unsettled, and I wandered many hours round the confines of the town, uncertain what path I should pursue."
14448,"To me, this article appears conclusive of little beyond the zeal of its inditer."
14449,"""Oh, beautiful"" sighed her Grace."
14450,"The ganzas, with whom he had become so familiar, were not really denizens of St. Helena, but of the moon."
14451,"The door, a ponderous and forbidding slab of stone, hangs upon rusted iron hinges, and is fastened ajar in a queerly sinister way by means of heavy iron chains and padlocks, according to a gruesome fashion of half a century ago."
14452,But to return to dearer considerations.
14453,"My dress it was an easy matter to copy; my gait and general manner were, without difficulty, appropriated; in spite of his constitutional defect, even my voice did not escape him."
14454,"Very good One, two, is this a good quarter?"
14455,"The picture then presented itself to her in such glowing colours, that she feared the reverse, and a life of magnificence and power in London; where Raymond would no longer be hers only, nor she the sole source of happiness to him."
14456,"In less than a minute the storm was upon us in less than two the sky was entirely overcast and what with this and the driving spray, it became suddenly so dark that we could not see each other in the smack."
14457,"Most horrible of all sights are the little unpainted wooden houses remote from travelled ways, usually squatted upon some damp, grassy slope or leaning against some gigantic outcropping of rock."
14458,But we have been placed here and bid live and hope.
14459,"And so far as he could tell, it was a rough parallel in all essential features of the bestial thing now lying before the meeting."
14460,"The door on the north was hung to open away from me, and this though a test proved it to be locked or bolted from the other side I knew must be my route."
14461,"I was much affected by the kindness of feeling towards me personally, which was evinced in this excellent advice of Mr. Crab, and I did not fail to profit by it forthwith."
14462,"Three months previously five of the little squint eyed traders had come down from the hills, and in a market brawl three of them had been killed."
14463,"Now I am not in any respect a genius, but a regular business man."
14464,The next morning while sitting on the steps of the temple of Aesculapius in the Borghese gardens Fantasia again visited me smilingly beckoned to me to follow her My flight was at first heavy but the breezes commanded by the spirit to convoy me grew stronger as I advanced a pleasing languour seized my senses when I recovered I found my self by the Elysian fountain near Diotima The beautiful female whom I had left on the point of narrating her earthly history seemed to have waited for my return and as soon as I appeared she spoke thus I VISITED Naples in the year .
14465,"The four others were dark eyed, hardy little vagrants; this child was thin and very fair."
14466,"The color"" here he turned to me ""is really almost enough to warrant Jupiter's idea."
14467,"Worst of all, though, is the shrivelling of old fears in the hearts of Kingsport's young men, who grow prone to listen at night to the north wind's faint distant sounds."
14468,Then came the steeper slope that held the old Carter place he had not seen in over forty years.
14469,"As we descended the shaft, the sound beneath grew definitely composite."
14470,"Thus passed away two lustra of her life, and as yet my daughter remained nameless upon the earth."
14471,"We had not been settled a week before we got an accident victim on the very night of burial, and made it open its eyes with an amazingly rational expression before the solution failed."
14472,"Perhaps he held within his own half explored brain that cryptic link which would awaken him to elder and future lives in forgotten dimensions; which would bind him to the stars, and to the infinities and eternities beyond them."
14473,"Perhaps in unremembered dreams tonight; perhaps in some other form an aeon hence, when the solar system shall have been swept away."""
14474,"His repugnance to ""the humanities"" had, also, much increased of late, by an accidental bias in favor of what he supposed to be natural science."
14475,"A natural accident, such as will happen now and then"" I gave the matter no further consideration, and at my usual hour retired to bed."
14476,"I was like the Arabian who had been buried with the dead and found a passage to life, aided only by one glimmering and seemingly ineffectual light."
14477,This was my first love so I felt it to be.
14478,"They rallied, fought madly, and retreated again."
14479,The Turk plays with his left hand.
14480,"When the machinery is wound up, the movements continue about an hour, during which time about fifty questions may be answered."
14481,"Mazurewicz seemed half dazed because of a ""sign"" he said he had had in response to his prayers, and he crossed himself frantically when the squealing and whimpering of a rat sounded from beyond the slanting partition."
14482,"""I'll tell you, I'm good and tired of water after reading of the merry bouts fellows used to have in the old days."
14483,For the feeling is no affectation or chimera.
14484,"A shepherd boy that tends a silly flock on the mountains, was more in the scale of society than I. Congratulate me then that I have found fitting scope for my powers."
14485,"He also closes the drawer, and, finally, winds up the machine, by applying a key to an aperture in the left end the spectators' left of the box."
14486,Heaven bless you and make you so My unfortunate guest regards me with the tenderest compassion.
14487,The stormy vigil reminded me shudderingly of my ghastly night on Tempest Mountain.
14488,"However, as the captain said he could perceive no indication of danger, and as we were drifting in bodily to shore, he ordered the sails to be furled, and the anchor let go."
14489,"Her father was moved by her violent grief; he took her in his arms and soothed her, but his very soothings were solemn and fearful."
14490,"The chastity of Ionia is offended by antediluvian devices, and the sphynxes of Egypt are outstretched upon carpets of gold."
14491,The astonishment which I had at first experienced on this discovery soon gave place to delight and rapture.
14492,"""And he really succeeded?"""
14493,Will my readers ask how I could find solace from the narration of misery and woeful change?
14494,At this juncture my brain became aware of a steady external influence operating upon it.
14495,They were the very old folk who dwelt higher up in the hills and spoke a choppy language which the Vascones could not understand.
14496,"This, however, is a painful position, and cannot be long maintained."
14497,I drank of an enchanted cup but gall was at the bottom of its long drawn sweetness.
14498,"The air becomes dissonant with wind instruments, and horrible with clamor of a million throats."
14499,His gross body could not undergo the needed adjustments between ethereal life and planet life.
14500,The more I studied them the more I wondered how he could buy any shoes to fit them.
14501,"At length, feeling a fatigue which had nothing of drowsiness in it, I bolted the newly outfitted hall door, turned off the light, and threw myself down on the hard, uneven bed coat, collar, shoes, and all."
14502,"""When I look upon you, the tears you shed, the soft deprecating look with which you withstand enquiry; the deep sympathy your voice expresses when I speak of my lesser sorrows add to my interest for you."
14503,"I ask'd the Doctor, if he had ever try'd making Sense of this Piece; and upon his saying he had not, I amus'd myself with the following Amendment of it: When Gallant LEEDS auspiciously shall wed The virtuous Fair, of antient Lineage bred, How must the Maid rejoice with conscious Pride To win so great an Husband to her Side On shewing this to Dr. Johnson, he said, ""Sir, you have straightened out the Feet, but you have put neither Wit nor try into the Lines."""
14504,"The bulky leather cover with the brass clasp had been so prominently visible, and the price was so absurdly slight."
14505,For a moment I half doubted that I had ever seen it in the more definitely limned form but then I thought of the legends.
14506,"A sudden gust, stronger than the others, caught up the manuscript and bore it toward the window."
14507,"Hatheg Kla is far in the stony desert beyond Hatheg, for which it is named, and rises like a rock statue in a silent temple."
14508,"I now began very clearly to perceive that the object before me was nothing more nor less than my new acquaintance, Brevet Brigadier General John A. B. C. Smith."
14509,"And frightened as I was, I yet retained enough of perception to note that his speech, when articulate, was not of any sort known to me."
14510,"I acted then, as I ever must, from impulse."
14511,There was a modern Platonist.
14512,"An indefinite sense of awe, which at first sight of the navigators of the ship had taken hold of my mind, was perhaps the principle of my concealment."
14513,"What I ask of you is reasonable and moderate; I demand a creature of another sex, but as hideous as myself; the gratification is small, but it is all that I can receive, and it shall content me."
14514,"Yet as it lies some distance from any of the main roads, being in a somewhat out of the way situation, there are perhaps very few of my readers who have ever paid it a visit."
14515,Consider the panic your departure will occasion.
14516,"My dear Lionel, we are married men, and find employment sufficient in amusing our wives, and dancing our children."
14517,"Shadows thickened around him, for the night was near."
14518,"Now each life was a gem, each human breathing form of far, O far more worth than subtlest imagery of sculptured stone; and the daily, nay, hourly decrease visible in our numbers, visited the heart with sickening misery."
14519,"Scarcely, in truth, is a graveyard ever encroached upon, for any purpose, to any great extent, that skeletons are not found in postures which suggest the most fearful of suspicions."
14520,"There were suggestions of the vague, twilight abysses, and of still vaster, blacker abysses beyond them abysses in which all fixed suggestions of form were absent."
14521,"Turn from me, if you will, if you can."
14522,The pulse was barely perceptible.
14523,"Demon eyes, of a wild and ghastly vivacity, glared upon me in a thousand directions, where none had been visible before, and gleamed with the lurid lustre of a fire that I could not force my imagination to regard as unreal."
14524,"It will be said, I am aware, that when we persist in acts because we feel we should not persist in them, our conduct is but a modification of that which ordinarily springs from the combativeness of phrenology."
14525,"""No,"" he said, ""oh, no a member of my family my niece, and a most accomplished woman."""
14526,My outstretched hands at length encountered some solid obstruction.
14527,"But at length when the sun had utterly departed, the Fay, now the mere ghost of her former self, went disconsolately with her boat into the region of the ebony flood, and that she issued thence at all I cannot say, for darkness fell over all things and I beheld her magical figure no more."
14528,"If there is any thing on earth I hate, it is a genius."
14529,"In search of a suitable place so situated, Ellison travelled for several years, and I was permitted to accompany him."
14530,Why not still proceed over the untamed yet obedient element?
14531,"Later, I told myself, I should grow to a strength and ingenuity which might enable me to unfasten the heavily chained door with ease; but until then I would do better by conforming to what seemed the will of Fate."
14532,"I was greatly and immediately relieved, however, when I saw the lady merely hand the gentleman a play bill, without speaking, but the reader may form some feeble conception of my astonishment of my profound amazement my delirious bewilderment of heart and soul when, instantly afterward, having again glanced furtively around, she allowed her bright eyes to set fully and steadily upon my own, and then, with a faint smile, disclosing a bright line of her pearly teeth, made two distinct, pointed, and unequivocal affirmative inclinations of the head."
14533,She did the pirouette to admiration whirling round upon her apex.
14534,"These journals may excel the 'Lollipop' in outcry, but, in all other points, give us the 'Lollipop' How this celebrated Magazine can sustain its evidently tremendous expenses, is past comprehension."
14535,"Propped level on that floor were low cases full of books of every degree of antiquity and disintegration, and in the centre were a table and bench, both apparently fastened in place."
14536,"The result, of course, did but prove how entirely the prey was in my toils; in less than an hour he had quadrupled his debt."
14537,"To think that there I was, opening the door, little by little, and he not even to dream of my secret deeds or thoughts."
14538,"It was in a grotesque hidden courtyard of the Greenwich section, for there in my ignorance I had settled, having heard of the place as the natural home of poets and artists."
14539,The silent grasp of a few rough arms and all would have been over.
14540,"There were some large square Georgian houses, too, with hipped roofs, cupolas, and railed ""widow's walks""."
14541,"It was not like a human loveliness that these gentle smiles went and came; but as a sunbeam on a lake, now light and now obscure, flitting before as you strove to catch them, and fold them for ever to your heart."
14542,"""Shall each man,"" cried he, ""find a wife for his bosom, and each beast have his mate, and I be alone?"
14543,"Ugh There are few persons I loathe more than that cursed little Syrian rat I have myself been carried back to Roman times by my recent perusal of James Rhoades' Æneid, a translation never before read by me, and more faithful to P. Maro than any other versified version I have ever seen including that of my late uncle Dr. Clark, which did not attain publication."
14544,"These are the reflections of the first days; but when the lapse of time proves the reality of the evil, then the actual bitterness of grief commences."
14545,"I believe we felt something coming down from the greenish moon, for when we began to depend on its light we drifted into curious involuntary formations and seemed to know our destinations though we dared not think of them."
14546,It was late in autumn when I quitted the district where I had so long resided.
14547,"Professor Angell must have employed a cutting bureau, for the number of extracts was tremendous and the sources scattered throughout the globe."
14548,"No teacher urged or guided me, and I do not recall hearing any human voice in all those years not even my own; for although I had read of speech, I had never thought to try to speak aloud."
14549,I affirm I swear that I had no share in these extreme aspirations.
14550,The light is dimmer and the gods are afraid. . .
14551,"The country, it is well known, has become infested with cats so much so of late, that a petition for relief, most numerously and respectably signed, was brought before the Legislature at its late memorable session."
14552,Could not distinguish the words uttered.
14553,"He, passionate, studious, austere, and having already a bride in his Art; she a maiden of rarest beauty, and not more lovely than full of glee; all light and smiles, and frolicsome as the young fawn; loving and cherishing all things; hating only the Art which was her rival; dreading only the pallet and brushes and other untoward instruments which deprived her of the countenance of her lover."
14554,"The dazzling light of ornamented rooms; lovely forms arrayed in splendid dresses; the motions of a dance, the voluptuous tones of exquisite music, cradled my senses in one delightful dream."
14555,"As for ""Oppodeldoc,"" I began to experience compassion for the poor fellow."
14556,"Though the man Romero had interested me, and though my ring had affected him peculiarly, I think that neither of us had any expectation of what was to follow when the great blast was set off."
14557,Now it is told in the mouldy Pnakotic Manuscripts that Sansu found naught but wordless ice and rock when he climbed Hatheg Kla in the youth of the world.
14558,"Legs to all this offered not the slightest resistance, but sat down as he was directed; while the gallant Hugh, removing his coffin tressel from its station near the head of the table, to the vicinity of the little consumptive lady in the winding sheet, plumped down by her side in high glee, and pouring out a skull of red wine, quaffed it to their better acquaintance."
14559,"As I swung the beam around to the south, I noticed that the ocean floor ahead fell away in a marked declivity, and bore curiously regular blocks of stone in certain places, disposed as if in accordance with definite patterns."
14560,"Man existed by twos and threes; man, the individual who might sleep, and wake, and perform the animal functions; but man, in himself weak, yet more powerful in congregated numbers than wind or ocean; man, the queller of the elements, the lord of created nature, the peer of demi gods, existed no longer."
14561,"Had Kidd concealed his plunder for a time, and afterwards reclaimed it, the rumors would scarcely have reached us in their present unvarying form."
14562,"The one is to the other, as Homer to ""Flaccus"" as a Mastodon to a mouse as the tail of a comet to that of a pig."
14563,"I could not have stirred with it a feather if my life had been at issue, or sullied even the delicacy of a mirror."
14564,"I have defended it with my sword, and was willing that my spirit should be breathed out in its defence; freedom is of more worth than life, and the Greeks do well to defend their privilege unto death."
14565,"The centuried, tottering houses on both sides seemed alive with a fresh and morbid malignity as if some hitherto closed channel of evil understanding had abruptly been opened."
14566,"Some Kingsport fishermen heerd abaout the ketch an' come up in sloops, but they was all lost."
14567,"""The child still struggled and loaded me with epithets which carried despair to my heart; I grasped his throat to silence him, and in a moment he lay dead at my feet."
14568,"I hovered for ever around the walls of its Castle, beneath its enshadowing thickets; my sole companions were my books and my loving thoughts."
14569,"Stupified with terror, the young nobleman tottered to the door."
14570,"Yes, I am happy, most happy, that I can weep thus for imaginary sorrows, and that the slight loss of my adored country is not dwindled and annihilated in mightier misery."
14571,"They were evidently suffering from the nervous strain of our long voyage, and had had bad dreams."
14572,It was a mystery all insoluble; nor could I grapple with the shadowy fancies that crowded upon me as I pondered.
14573,"Those later spectral legends, I made plain, related to monstrous apparitions more frightful than anything organic could be; apparitions of gigantic bestial forms sometimes visible and sometimes only tangible, which floated about on moonless nights and haunted the old house, the crypt behind it, and the grave where a sapling had sprouted beside an illegible slab."
14574,She shewed them how the well being of each included the prosperity of all.
14575,"We stood at the door looking on this strange scene, till the dog perceiving us barked loudly; the child turned and saw us: her face."
14576,"""But then I have no change for a hundred, and upon the whole, you had better ""Cast off there"" says the captain."
14577,"It spread over the old man, too, whether from the same source or because of his fear and vehemence, and I saw him shrivel and blacken as he lurched near and strove to rend me with vulturine talons."
14578,"The older fellows look the worst fact is, I don't believe I've ever seen a very old chap of that kind."
14579,"I say that I saw this thing, but it is only in conscious retrospection that I ever definitely traced its damnable approach to form."
14580,"Its size must have been exaggerated, yet the stones lying about proved that it was no mere negro village."
14581,"The same individual submitted to me, without being at all aware of my intentions, a method of constructing balloons from the membrane of a certain animal, through which substance any escape of gas was nearly an impossibility."
14582,"The paragraph beginning 'It is folly to suppose that the murder, etc.,' however it appears as printed in L'Etoile, may be imagined to have existed actually thus in the brain of its inditer 'It is folly to suppose that the murder, if murder was committed on the body, could have been committed soon enough to have enabled her murderers to throw the body into the river before midnight; it is folly, we say, to suppose all this, and to suppose at the same time, as we are resolved to suppose, that the body was not thrown in until after midnight' a sentence sufficiently inconsequential in itself, but not so utterly preposterous as the one printed."
14583,"My frame is strong, but my soul sinks beneath this endurance of living anguish."
14584,"The memory of that unfortunate king and his companions, the amiable Falkland, the insolent Goring, his queen, and son, gave a peculiar interest to every part of the city which they might be supposed to have inhabited."
14585,The men from Arkham were undecided what to do.
14586,"""That is my least concern; I am, by a course of strange events, become the most miserable of mortals."
14587,"Many a casque, and bayonet, and sword, fallen from unnerved arms, reflected the departing ray; they lay scattered far and near."
14588,"So intense an expression of romance, perhaps I should call it, or of unworldliness, as that which gleamed from her deep set eyes, had never so sunk into my heart of hearts before."
14589,And what means the singular prophecy of Madame Rogêt on the morning of Marie's departure?
14590,"Others perceived only a passing casualty; they endeavoured to exchange terror for heedlessness, and plunged into licentiousness, to avoid the agonizing throes of worst apprehension."
14591,"They struck a solid wooden substance, which extended above my person at an elevation of not more than six inches from my face."
14592,"And poor Clerval "" The name of my unfortunate and murdered friend was an agitation too great to be endured in my weak state; I shed tears."
14593,"."" rang the hideous croaking out of space."
14594,"My revenge is of no moment to you; yet, while I allow it to be a vice, I confess that it is the devouring and only passion of my soul."
14595,"Make me happy, and I shall again be virtuous."""
14596,"There was evidently, however, no pursuer; for he was alone and alive when Armington, the lodge keeper, answered his feeble clawing at the door."
14597,"I computed, also, the height of the atmosphere which could refract light enough into its dark hemisphere to produce a twilight more luminous than the light reflected from the earth when the moon is about degrees from the new to be , Paris feet; in this view, I supposed the greatest height capable of refracting the solar ray, to be , feet."
14598,"Dr. Moneypenny made the title for us, and says he chose it because it sounded big like an empty rum puncheon."
14599,I mean to say that the Deity does not create.
14600,And he would not see that the tints which he spread upon the canvas were drawn from the cheeks of her who sate beside him.
14601,Every thing was perfectly silent no groans or noises of any kind.
14602,"He thought a photograph quite as good as an actual scene or model for sustained work, and declared he employed them regularly."
14603,"The fits grow successively more and more distinctive, and endure each for a longer term than the preceding."
14604,"You can say, for instance, that the chicken you were eating write an article about being choked to death by a chicken bone was not altogether aussi tendre que Zaire."
14605,I shall never forget the afternoon when first I stumbled upon the half hidden house of death.
14606,"That fable is unjust, which gives the superiority to the sun over the wind."
14607,"Unlocking it, he ushered me into a barren hallway with what was once splendid dark oak panelling simple, of course, but thrillingly suggestive of the times of Andros and Phipps and the Witchcraft."
14608,"The following months were void of visible events, save that everyone swore to a slow but steady increase in the mysterious hill noises."
14609,"Hence it might be supposed, that at some times and not at others, there is a dense matter encompassing the moon wherein the rays of the stars are refracted."
14610,In the absence of the sun they have a light from the earth equal to that of thirteen full unclouded moons.
14611,"It is well known that, during the week of her absence from Le Blanc's parfumerie, she was in the company of a young naval officer, much noted for his debaucheries."
14612,"I remembered too well the treatment I had suffered the night before from the barbarous villagers, and resolved, whatever course of conduct I might hereafter think it right to pursue, that for the present I would remain quietly in my hovel, watching and endeavouring to discover the motives which influenced their actions."
14613,"Sometimes at twilight the grey vapours of the horizon have parted to grant me glimpses of the ways beyond; and sometimes at night the deep waters of the sea have grown clear and phosphorescent, to grant me glimpses of the ways beneath."
14614,"These perplexities and regrets caused her to bathe her pillow with nightly tears, and to reduce her in person and in mind to the shadow of what she had been."
14615,"Palaces were deserted, and the poor man dared at length, unreproved, intrude into the splendid apartments, whose very furniture and decorations were an unknown world to him."
14616,"The left tibia much splintered, as well as all the ribs of the left side."
14617,"The opinions of Arago are, of course, entitled to the greatest consideration; but he is by no means infallible; and what he says of bismuth, in his report to the Academy, must be taken cum grano salis."
14618,"It is only when his next move is obvious, or when the game is so circumstanced that to a man in the Automaton's place there would be no necessity for reflection."
14619,"I heard them many, many days ago yet I dared not I dared not speak And now to night Ethelred ha ha the breaking of the hermit's door, and the death cry of the dragon, and the clangor of the shield say, rather, the rending of her coffin, and the grating of the iron hinges of her prison, and her struggles within the coppered archway of the vault Oh whither shall I fly?"
14620,"Were those the fertile fields I loved was that the interchange of gentle upland and cultivated dale, once covered with waving corn, diversified by stately trees, watered by the meandering Thames?"
14621,"Night approached, and we were overtaken by a storm."
14622,"My uncle, as he gasped and tossed in increasing perturbation and with eyes that had now started open, seemed not one but many men, and suggested a curious quality of alienage from himself."
14623,"Assured of his being asleep, I returned, took the light, and with it again approached the bed."
14624,"This monomania, if I must so term it, consisted in a morbid irritability of those properties of the mind in metaphysical science termed the attentive."
14625,I saw them fashion the syllables of my name; and I shuddered because no sound succeeded.
14626,The inference here is the same as in our last observation.
14627,But her wish was of course to be complied with; and I entreated her to prepare without delay for our departure.
14628,"Had the vision occurred to me as I describe it, without my suspecting it as a dream, then a dream it might absolutely have been, but, occurring as it did, and suspected and tested as it was, I am forced to class it among other phenomena."""
14629,"I grant you that in Fum Fudge the greatness of a lion is in proportion to the size of his proboscis but, good heavens there is no competing with a lion who has no proboscis at all."""
14630,"And then again she became aware of her own excellencies, and began to balance with juster scales the shades of good and evil."
14631,"As the afternoon progressed, I sought the lower levels, descending into what appeared to be either a mediaeval place of confinement, or a more recently excavated storehouse for gunpowder."
14632,"Her ugly sister, Manon, married M. Duvillard, the rich banker, last autumn."
14633,"What was worthy of remark, a very perceptible vacillation in the car was a consequence of this change of route a vacillation which prevailed, in a more or less degree, for a period of many hours."
14634,"Greece prepared for a vigorous resistance; it rose to a man; and the women, sacrificing their costly ornaments, accoutred their sons for the war, and bade them conquer or die with the spirit of the Spartan mother."
14635,"Indeed, his competition, his resistance, and especially his impertinent and dogged interference with my purposes, were not more pointed than private."
14636,"He says they brung us fish an' treasure, an' shud hev what they hankered arter. . . ."
14637,It displayed itself in a host of unnatural sensations.
14638,"""Why, Lionel,"" said Adrian, ""what did you intend?"
14639,Tidings of an armed and regular opposition recalled them to a sort of order.
14640,"It was better than human material for maintaining life in organless fragments, and that was now my friend's chief activity."
14641,"At first astonished and startled, considering the lack of response to my recent knocking at the door, I immediately afterward concluded that the walker had just awakened from a sound sleep; and listened with less surprise as the footsteps sounded on the creaking stairs."
14642,Gorgeous beyond thought was the feast of the thousandth year of the destroying of Ib.
14643,"The expanse of the green turf was relieved, here and there, by an occasional showy shrub, such as the hydrangea, or the common snowball, or the aromatic seringa; or, more frequently, by a clump of geraniums blossoming gorgeously in great varieties."
14644,"Persia, with its cloth of gold, marble halls, and infinite wealth, is now a tomb."
14645,"Man, because he could not but acknowledge the majesty of Nature, fell into childish exultation at his acquired and still increasing dominion over her elements."
14646,"In the morning, the wretch is stricken with unutterable horror at finding that the boat has been picked up and detained at a locality which he is in the daily habit of frequenting at a locality, perhaps, which his duty compels him to frequent."
14647,"She was pale and fair, and her golden hair clustered on her temples, contrasting its rich hue with the living marble beneath."
14648,"Would it not have been better, at the first visit, to have seized it openly, and departed?"""
14649,"She was tranquil, yet her tranquillity was evidently constrained; and as her confusion had before been adduced as a proof of her guilt, she worked up her mind to an appearance of courage."
14650,"For a long time I could not conceive how one man could go forth to murder his fellow, or even why there were laws and governments; but when I heard details of vice and bloodshed, my wonder ceased and I turned away with disgust and loathing."
14651,"France, Germany, Italy and Spain, were interposed, walls yet without a breach, between us and the plague."
14652,"With a too unscrupulous confidence she had previously communicated to me the secret of the costume in which she would be habited, and now, having caught a glimpse of her person, I was hurrying to make my way into her presence."
14653,"Then we struck a substance harder than the damp mould, and beheld a rotting oblong box crusted with mineral deposits from the long undisturbed ground."
14654,The only one who would talk was a very aged but normal looking man who lived at the poorhouse on the north rim of the town and spent his time walking about or lounging around the fire station.
14655,These responses from aesthetes told a disturbing tale.
14656,"This canteen with a funnel on its top, like a cavalier cap slouched over the eyes was set on edge upon the puncheon, with the hole toward myself; and through this hole, which seemed puckered up like the mouth of a very precise old maid, the creature was emitting certain rumbling and grumbling noises which he evidently intended for intelligible talk."
14657,"Friends said that it was this series of griefs which unhinged the mind of Sir Robert Jermyn, yet it was probably merely a bit of African folklore which caused the disaster."
14658,"And now, in response to a general and urgent demand, Inspector Legrasse related as fully as possible his experience with the swamp worshippers; telling a story to which I could see my uncle attached profound significance."
14659,"In fine, driven to despair, she has committed the matter to me."" ""Than whom,"" said Dupin, amid a perfect whirlwind of smoke, ""no more sagacious agent could, I suppose, be desired, or even imagined."""
14660,To the right to the left far and wide with the shriek of a damned spirit; to my heart with the stealthy pace of the tiger I alternately laughed and howled as the one or the other idea grew predominant.
14661,"That the result would be death, and a death of more than customary bitterness, I knew too well the character of my judges to doubt."
14662,Could the demon who had I did not for a minute doubt murdered my brother also in his hellish sport have betrayed the innocent to death and ignominy?
14663,"These contrivances to make the room within the box appear less than it actually is, are referrible to a design on the part of the inventor, to impress the company again with a false idea, viz."
14664,"The cleanliness, habits of order, and the manner in which our cities were built, were all in our favour."
14665,Never conversed with a native of Russia.
14666,"My flagging spirits asked for something to speak to the affections; and not finding it, I drooped."
14667,"Not so, however, rumors and speculations."
14668,"He still professed himself quite willing and even anxious to have it made, and urged me to commence it at once."
14669,"I rushed to her defence, but rage made them blind and deaf; they did not distinguish my Christian garb or heed my words words were blunt weapons then, for while war cried ""havoc,"" and murder gave fit echo, how could I Turn back the tide of ills, relieving wrong With mild accost of soothing eloquence?"
14670,"But although men so absolutely fine looking are neither as plenty as reasons or blackberries, still I could not bring myself to believe that the remarkable something to which I alluded just now, that the odd air of je ne sais quoi which hung about my new acquaintance, lay altogether, or indeed at all, in the supreme excellence of his bodily endowments."
14671,"""What do we know,"" he had said, ""of the world and the universe about us?"
14672,"He dared not disobey the summons for fear it might prove an illusion like the urges and aspirations of waking life, which do not lead to any goal."
14673,"There was one black tower which reached above the trees into the unknown outer sky, but that was partly ruined and could not be ascended save by a well nigh impossible climb up the sheer wall, stone by stone."
14674,"Truly it was a fairy's supper; for though the air was perfumed by the scent of fruits and wine, we none of us either ate or drank even the beauty of the night was unobserved; their extasy could not be increased by outward objects, and I was wrapt in reverie."
14675,"It contained about three hundred and twenty cubic feet of gas, which, if pure hydrogen, would support twenty one pounds upon its first inflation, before the gas has time to deteriorate or escape."
14676,Three years later he died.
14677,"He ran freely about the fields and hills, and accompanied his mother on all her wanderings."
14678,The talk went on most all night.
14679,"My next logical goal was New Church Green, but somehow or other I could not bear to repass the church in whose basement I had glimpsed the inexplicably frightening form of that strangely diademed priest or pastor."
14680,"""I am quite ashamed to confess,"" I replied, ""that I have never even heard the names of either gentleman before."""
14681,Through my father's exertions a part of the inheritance of Elizabeth had been restored to her by the Austrian government.
14682,I listened to Raymond with intense interest.
14683,"Detailed description would be rather unpleasant, but two salient particulars must be told, for they fit in revoltingly with certain notes of Sir Wade Jermyn's African expeditions and with the Congolese legends of the white god and the ape princess."
14684,You have observed nothing distinctive.
14685,"But of that dreary period which intervened I had no positive, at least no definite comprehension."
14686,"Her illnesses were, after this epoch, of alarming character, and of more alarming recurrence, defying alike the knowledge and the great exertions of her physicians."
14687,"Oh, Frankenstein, be not equitable to every other and trample upon me alone, to whom thy justice, and even thy clemency and affection, is most due."
14688,"Without pausing to speak of the ""old saws,"" therefore, I shall content myself with a compendious account of some of the more ""modern instances."""
14689,"Are you, then, so easily turned from your design?"
14690,"They were wild, bold, ravenous; their red eyes glaring upon me as if they waited but for motionlessness on my part to make me their prey."
14691,"The name of the Earl startled me, and caused all the indignant blood that warmed my heart to rush into my cheeks; I had never seen him before; I figured to myself a haughty, assuming youth, who would take me to task, if he deigned to speak to me, with all the arrogance of superiority."
14692,"The abrupt sides of vast mountains were before me; the icy wall of the glacier overhung me; a few shattered pines were scattered around; and the solemn silence of this glorious presence chamber of imperial nature was broken only by the brawling waves or the fall of some vast fragment, the thunder sound of the avalanche or the cracking, reverberated along the mountains, of the accumulated ice, which, through the silent working of immutable laws, was ever and anon rent and torn, as if it had been but a plaything in their hands."
14693,"Taking a pocket flashlight from my valise, I placed it in my trousers, so that I could read my watch if I woke up later in the dark."
14694,About the mouth there was more to be observed.
14695,"My friend was dying when I spoke to him, and he could not answer coherently."
14696,"""Here we are enabled, at once, to discard the 'th,' as forming no portion of the word commencing with the first t; since, by experiment of the entire alphabet for a letter adapted to the vacancy, we perceive that no word can be formed of which this th can be a part."
14697,"The career of the horseman was indisputably, on his own part, uncontrollable."
14698,"But we will not die in heaps, like dogs poisoned in summer time, by the pestilential air of that city we dare not go against the Plague"" A multitude of men are feeble and inert, without a voice, a leader; give them that, and they regain the strength belonging to their numbers."
14699,"He was enchained by certain superstitious impressions in regard to the dwelling which he tenanted, and whence, for many years, he had never ventured forth in regard to an influence whose supposititious force was conveyed in terms too shadowy here to be re stated an influence which some peculiarities in the mere form and substance of his family mansion, had, by dint of long sufferance, he said, obtained over his spirit an effect which the physique of the gray walls and turrets, and of the dim tarn into which they all looked down, had, at length, brought about upon the morale of his existence."
14700,Of this he had long felt certain.
14701,"As I watched choked by a sudden rise in the fishy odour after a short abatement I saw a band of uncouth, crouching shapes loping and shambling in the same direction; and knew that this must be the party guarding the Ipswich road, since that highway forms an extension of Eliot Street."
14702,"There was a sharp turn at every twenty or thirty yards, and at each turn a novel effect."
14703,"Strange to say, this feeling was infectious."
14704,"I dare say he will be glad to see you."""
14705,And then I repeated to myself all that lovely passage that relates the entrance of Dante into the terrestrial Paradise; and thought it would be sweet when I wandered on those lovely banks to see the car of light descend with my long lost parent to be restored to me.
14706,"They were of that vaster and more appalling universe of dim entity and consciousness which lies deeper than matter, time, and space, and whose existence we suspect only in certain forms of sleep those rare dreams beyond dreams which come never to common men, and but once or twice in the lifetime of imaginative men."
14707,"Dead, and at full length he lay, enshrouded; the genius and the demon of the scene."
14708,"Then the three of us dragged from another room a wide four poster bedstead, crowding it laterally against the window."
14709,"I grant, at least, that there are two distinct conditions of my mental existence the condition of a lucid reason, not to be disputed, and belonging to the memory of events forming the first epoch of my life and a condition of shadow and doubt, appertaining to the present, and to the recollection of what constitutes the second great era of my being."
14710,"Just what Crawford Tillinghast now wished of me I could only guess, but that he had some stupendous secret or discovery to impart, I could not doubt."
14711,"It was the dank, humid cellar which somehow exerted the strongest repulsion on us, even though it was wholly above ground on the street side, with only a thin door and window pierced brick wall to separate it from the busy sidewalk."
14712,"That same night after Adrian's departure, her mother had warmly expostulated with her on the subject of her attachment to me."
14713,"But I had suffered him to depart, and he had directed his course towards the mainland."
14714,"There will be a point there will be a degree of rarity, at which, if the atoms are sufficiently numerous, the interspaces must vanish, and the mass absolutely coalesce."
14715,"Some of these were in curious fragments, and all that survived had to be shot."
14716,"A part of its orb was at length hid, and I waved my brand; it sank, and with a loud scream I fired the straw, and heath, and bushes, which I had collected."
14717,Why is it that I feel no horror?
14718,"Oh God pity me, Charmion I am overburthened with the majesty of all things of the unknown now known of the speculative Future merged in the august and certain Present."
14719,What the things agreed to give in return was plenty o' fish they druv 'em in from all over the sea an' a few gold like things naow an' then.
14720,"With us remained sorrow, anxiety, and unendurable expectation of evil."
14721,"But, as the point immediately beneath him seems, and is, at a great distance below him, it seems, of course, also, at a great distance below the horizon."
14722,"And once I walked through a golden valley that led to shadowy groves and ruins, and ended in a mighty wall green with antique vines, and pierced by a little gate of bronze."
14723,It is well when flies only are caught by such spiders' webs; but is it for the high born and powerful to bow their necks to the flimsy yoke of these unmeaning pretensions?
14724,"Upon my entering he strode hurriedly up to me, and, seizing me by the arm with a gesture of petulant impatience, whispered the words ""William Wilson"" in my ear."
14725,I have no ambition to lose my life on the post road between St. Petersburgh and Archangel.
14726,"The Sefton tragedy they will not connect with West; not that, nor the men with the box, whose existence they deny."
14727,"""Many other persons, neighbors, gave evidence to the same effect."
14728,"The first revelation led to an exhaustive research, and finally to that shuddering quest which proved so disastrous to myself and mine."
14729,"To the moralist it will be unnecessary to say, in addition, that Wilson and myself were the most inseparable of companions."
14730,"It wanted about five minutes of eight when, taking the patient's hand, I begged him to state, as distinctly as he could, to Mr. L l, whether he M. Valdemar was entirely willing that I should make the experiment of mesmerizing him in his then condition."
14731,"Everything seemed to me tainted with a loathsome contagion, and inspired by a noxious alliance with distorted hidden powers."
14732,And they do not wish quaint Kingsport with its climbing lanes and archaic gables to drag listless down the years while voice by voice the laughing chorus grows stronger and wilder in that unknown and terrible eyrie where mists and the dreams of mists stop to rest on their way from the sea to the skies.
14733,Again I strained to catch his whispers.
14734,"These colors disappear at longer or shorter intervals after the material written upon cools, but again become apparent upon the re application of heat."
14735,"The following anecdote, at least, is so well authenticated, that we may receive it implicitly."
14736,"And, as accident permitted, I complied with or refused her request."
14737,"The Greeks were strongly attached to their commercial pursuits, and would have been satisfied with their present acquisitions, had not the Turks roused them by invasion."
14738,"Absence from the busy stage had caused him to be forgotten by the people; his former parliamentary supporters were principally composed of royalists, who had been willing to make an idol of him when he appeared as the heir of the Earldom of Windsor; but who were indifferent to him, when he came forward with no other attributes and distinctions than they conceived to be common to many among themselves."
14739,I rushed into my sister's cabin; it was empty.
14740,"The grease was gone, for the mouldy floor was porous."
14741,"A little consideration will convince any one that the difficulty of making a machine beat all games, Is not in the least degree greater, as regards the principle of the operations necessary, than that of making it beat a single game."
14742,"The latter had felt secure of victory, until the appearance of Raymond; and, since his name had been inserted as a candidate, he had canvassed with eagerness."
14743,"Fortunately no one was about, though a curious sort of buzz or roar seemed to be increasing in the direction of Town Square."
14744,"The door, of massive iron, had been, also, similarly protected."
14745,"In general, the Turk is victorious once or twice he has been beaten."
14746,"St. Eustache fell especially under suspicion; and he failed, at first, to give an intelligible account of his whereabouts during the Sunday on which Marie left home."
14747,He was obviously quite mad.
14748,This was a glorious winter.
14749,"In short, it seemed to my uncle and me that an incontrovertible array of facts pointed to some lingering influence in the shunned house; traceable to one or another of the ill favoured French settlers of two centuries before, and still operative through rare and unknown laws of atomic and electronic motion."
14750,"""Everything cleaned up in the mornin' but they was traces. . . ."
14751,"Monsieur Dumas, and his worthy coadjutor Monsieur Etienne, have pronounced that they were inflicted by some obtuse instrument; and so far these gentlemen are very correct."
14752,The chair on which the figure sits is affixed permanently to the box.
14753,"The sound came from a squat towered stone church of manifestly later date than most of the houses, built in a clumsy Gothic fashion and having a disproportionately high basement with shuttered windows."
14754,Nobody hesitates at paying for a letter especially for a double one people are such fools and it was no trouble to get round a corner before there was time to open the epistles.
14755,"Finally he decided to lay a base of three parallel with the wall, to place upon this two layers of two each, and upon these a single box to serve as the platform."
14756,"Impossible A mason?"" ""A mason,"" I replied."
14757,"The events that in succession followed his return to England, gave me keener feelings."
14758,"We took no more sweet counsel together; and when I tried to win him again to me, his anger, and the terrible emotions that he exhibited drove me to silence and tears."
14759,"""Long have I missed thee, Aira, for I was but young when we went into exile; but my father was thy King and I shall come again to thee, for it is so decreed of Fate."
14760,"The supposed brass with which it was filled was all in small, smooth pieces, varying from the size of a pea to that of a dollar; but the pieces were irregular in shape, although more or less flat looking, upon the whole, 'very much as lead looks when thrown upon the ground in a molten state, and there suffered to grow cool.' Now, not one of these officers for a moment suspected this metal to be any thing but brass."
14761,"The atrocity of this murder, for it was at once evident that murder had been committed, the youth and beauty of the victim, and, above all, her previous notoriety, conspired to produce intense excitement in the minds of the sensitive Parisians."
14762,"Maybe Harvard wun't be so fussy as yew be."""
14763,"He again went through the scene of the bell rope and cudgel, and did not omit the duck."
14764,"It was, he said, a constitutional and a family evil, and one for which he despaired to find a remedy a mere nervous affection, he immediately added, which would undoubtedly soon pass off."
14765,"Some houses along Main Street were tenanted, but most were tightly boarded up."
14766,"The examination occupied us until dark, when we took our departure."
14767,"Then, driven ahead by curiosity in their captured yacht under Johansen's command, the men sight a great stone pillar sticking out of the sea, and in S. Latitude , W. Longitude come upon a coast line of mingled mud, ooze, and weedy Cyclopean masonry which can be nothing less than the tangible substance of earth's supreme terror the nightmare corpse city of R'lyeh, that was built in measureless aeons behind history by the vast, loathsome shapes that seeped down from the dark stars."
14768,"Witnesses said it had long hair and the shape of a rat, but that its sharp toothed, bearded face was evilly human while its paws were like tiny human hands."
14769,"Here my host's observations were cut short by another series of yells, of the same character as those which had previously disconcerted us."
14770,"I believe I sang a great deal, and laughed oddly when I was unable to sing."
14771,"The expression of his smile, however, was by no means unpleasing, as might be supposed; but it had no variation whatever."
14772,"From the east, a band of ravens, old inhabitants of the Turkish cemeteries, came sailing along towards their harvest; the sun disappeared."
14773,Very plausibly his saner self argued that the place must be tenanted by people who reached it from inland along the easier ridge beside the Miskatonic's estuary.
14774,"Wherever seen it has been an object of intense curiosity, to all persons who think."
14775,"I have therefore framed for myself, as you see, a bower of dreams."
14776,"A middle aged man, with some intelligence of manner, but with so common place a physiognomy, that Raymond could scarcely believe that he was the designer."
14777,"If drowned, being a woman, she might never have sunk; or having sunk, might have reappeared in twenty four hours, or less."
14778,"And such it would undoubtedly be, were they right in their supposition."
14779,"The vegetables in the gardens, the milk and cheese that I saw placed at the windows of some of the cottages, allured my appetite."
14780,"These the keg and canisters I connected in a proper manner with covered trains; and having let into one of the canisters the end of about four feet of slow match, I covered up the hole, and placed the cask over it, leaving the other end of the match protruding about an inch, and barely visible beyond the cask."
14781,"This spirit of perverseness, I say, came to my final overthrow."
14782,"'I lie,' forsooth and 'hold my tongue,' to be sure pretty conversation indeed, to a gentleman with a single breath all this, too, when I have it in my power to relieve the calamity under which thou dost so justly suffer to curtail the superfluities of thine unhappy respiration."""
14783,"Her garb was rustic, and her cheek pale; but there was an air of dignity and beauty, that hardly permitted the sentiment of pity."
14784,"Through this tube a quantity of the rare atmosphere circumjacent being drawn by means of a vacuum created in the body of the machine, was thence discharged, in a state of condensation, to mingle with the thin air already in the chamber."
14785,"They are dead, and but one feeling in such a solitude can persuade me to preserve my life."
14786,"I saw plainly that he was surprised, but he never attempted to draw my secret from me; and although I loved him with a mixture of affection and reverence that knew no bounds, yet I could never persuade myself to confide in him that event which was so often present to my recollection, but which I feared the detail to another would only impress more deeply."
14787,"He continued: ""We had been talking of horses, if I remember aright, just before leaving the Rue C ."
14788,"""Besides the articles above enumerated, I conveyed to the depot, and there secreted, one of M. Grimm's improvements upon the apparatus for condensation of the atmospheric air."
14789,"She had rejected these advances; and the time for such exuberant submission, which must be founded on love and nourished by it, was now passed."
14790,"""Smith?"" said my partner, ""why, not General John A. B. C.? Horrid affair that, wasn't it?"
14791,"Thus, while the wise, the good, and the prudent were occupied by the labours of benevolence, the truce of winter produced other effects among the young, the thoughtless, and the vicious."
14792,Waiting seemed very long to Mr. Czanek as he fidgeted restlessly in the covered motor car by the Terrible Old Man's back gate in Ship Street.
14793,"Puss, who seemed in a great measure recovered from her illness, now made a hearty meal of the dead bird and then went to sleep with much apparent satisfaction."
14794,"Indeed I was too weary to walk further: the air was chill but I was careless of bodily inconvenience, and I thought that I was well inured to the weather during my two years of solitude, when no change of seasons prevented my perpetual wanderings."
14795,"The author who was much thought of in his day was one Miller, or Mill; and we find it recorded of him, as a point of some importance, that he had a mill horse called Bentham."
14796,"A few of the organic objects tended to awake vague memories in the back of his mind, though he could form no conscious idea of what they mockingly resembled or suggested."
14797,Somehow thus: Can't be too brief.
14798,"In truth so deeply was I excited by the perilous position of my companion, that I fell at full length upon the ground, clung to the shrubs around me, and dared not even glance upward at the sky while I struggled in vain to divest myself of the idea that the very foundations of the mountain were in danger from the fury of the winds."
14799,"Twice a year they would light fires on the top of Sentinel Hill, at which times the mountain rumblings would recur with greater and greater violence; while at all seasons there were strange and portentous doings at the lonely farmhouse."
14800,Then it was not done by human agency.
14801,"Again he converses, for some fifteen minutes, upon the public affairs."
14802,To describe their exact nature is impossible for one unversed in music.
14803,"And pox on him, I'm afeared the squire must have sarved them monstrous bad rum whether or not by intent for a week after he larnt the secret he was the only man living that knew it."
14804,"'There were originally but three Muses Melete, Mneme, Aoede meditation, memory, and singing.'"
14805,"One thing I began to suspect, and which I now fear I know, is that my uncle's death was far from natural."
14806,"He had seen it, and praised it; it was again retouched by her, each stroke of her pencil was as a chord of thrilling music, and bore to her the idea of a temple raised to celebrate the deepest and most unutterable emotions of her soul."
14807,"""What a noble fellow"" you will exclaim."
14808,"It had to be done my way artificial preservation for you see I died that time eighteen years ago."""
14809,"By degrees Evadne related to her friend the whole of her story, the stain her name had received in Greece, the weight of sin which had accrued to her from the death of her husband."
14810,"The room within which they found themselves proved to be the shop of an undertaker; but an open trap door, in a corner of the floor near the entrance, looked down upon a long range of wine cellars, whose depths the occasional sound of bursting bottles proclaimed to be well stored with their appropriate contents."
14811,"What added, no doubt, to my hatred of the beast, was the discovery, on the morning after I brought it home, that, like Pluto, it also had been deprived of one of its eyes."
14812,"Believing I was now at a prodigious height, far above the accursed branches of the wood, I dragged myself up from the floor and fumbled about for windows, that I might look for the first time upon the sky, and the moon and stars of which I had read."
14813,At first an unusual quantity of specie made its appearance with the emigrants; but these people had no means of receiving back into their hands what they spent among us.
14814,I could only think of the bourne of my travels and the work which was to occupy me whilst they endured.
14815,"Coincidences, in general, are great stumbling blocks in the way of that class of thinkers who have been educated to know nothing of the theory of probabilities that theory to which the most glorious objects of human research are indebted for the most glorious of illustration."
14816,The foregoing observations apply to the appearance of the Automaton upon its first introduction into the presence of the spectators.
14817,"It had looked very queer to her, but of course the young gentleman had lots of queer things in his room books and curios and pictures and markings on paper."
14818,Would you also create for yourself and the world a demoniacal enemy?
14819,"A traveller, portmanteau in hand, is discovered running toward the wharf, at full speed."
14820,"The real diameter of the same comet's nebulosity is observed to contract rapidly as it approaches the sun, and dilate with equal rapidity in its departure towards its aphelion."
14821,"I was rough as the elements, and unlearned as the animals I tended."
14822,It was the hour of the slack but the sea still heaved in mountainous waves from the effects of the hurricane.
14823,"Dogless, niggerless, headless, what now remains for the unhappy Signora Psyche Zenobia?"
14824,"Sometimes, with my sails set, I was carried by the wind; and sometimes, after rowing into the middle of the lake, I left the boat to pursue its own course and gave way to my own miserable reflections."
14825,"But, on the next day, getting up very early, I contrived to give him the slip, and went into the hills in search of the tree."
14826,Sweeps were sent up and down the chimneys.
14827,"March d the crew of the Emma landed on an unknown island and left six men dead; and on that date the dreams of sensitive men assumed a heightened vividness and darkened with dread of a giant monster's malign pursuit, whilst an architect had gone mad and a sculptor had lapsed suddenly into delirium And what of this storm of April nd the date on which all dreams of the dank city ceased, and Wilcox emerged unharmed from the bondage of strange fever?"
14828,"He was called ""Old Bugs"", and was the most disreputable object in a disreputable environment."
14829,"I was soon upon the point of resigning myself to my fate, and dropping quietly into the sea, when my spirits were suddenly revived by hearing a hollow voice from above, which seemed to be lazily humming an opera air."
14830,It made me think illogically of that unpleasantly undulating column on the far off Ipswich road.
14831,"As to the shape of the phenomenon, it was even still more reprehensible."
14832,"It had hellishly long, sharp, canine teeth."
14833,"Black draperies, likewise, in the gloomy room, shut out from our view the moon, the lurid stars, and the peopleless streets but the boding and the memory of Evil they would not be so excluded."
14834,"While the brother and sister were still hesitating in what manner they could best attempt to bring their mother over to their party, she, suspecting our meetings, taxed her children with them; taxed her fair daughter with deceit, and an unbecoming attachment for one whose only merit was being the son of the profligate favourite of her imprudent father; and who was doubtless as worthless as he from whom he boasted his descent."
14835,"The one glimpse he had had of the title was enough to send him into transports, and some of the diagrams set in the vague Latin text excited the tensest and most disquieting recollections in his brain."
14836,"Other specimens the youth had not seen, though many were rumoured to exist around Innsmouth."
14837,"It echoed and echoed through the dim vaultings of that ancient and nitrous cellar, and I had to choke back a flood of reaction that threatened to burst out as hysterical laughter."
14838,"All the same his crews ud git a piece an' dispose of it naow and then, even though they was swore to keep quiet; an' he let his women folks wear some o' the pieces as was more human like than most."
14839,"But I wish to call your attention to the distinction which is made between 'drowned bodies,' and 'bodies thrown into the water immediately after death by violence.'"
14840,"""Mademoiselle Rogêt left her mother's house on Sunday morning, June the twenty second, , with the ostensible purpose of going to see her aunt, or some other connexion, in the Rue des Drômes."
14841,Sails were lying in the bottom of the boat.
14842,"Nor is he matter, as you understand it."
14843,"Much of this tale she concealed from Raymond; nor did she confess, that repulse and denial, as to a criminal convicted of the worst of crimes, that of bringing the scythe of foreign despotism to cut away the new springing liberties of her country, would have followed her application to any among the Greeks."
14844,An' tell me why Obed was allus droppin' heavy things daown into the deep water t'other side o' the reef whar the bottom shoots daown like a cliff lower'n ye kin saound?
14845,"She had asked her neighbour Mary Czanek to sleep in the room and try to protect the child, but Mary had not dared."
14846,"He was an especial favorite, too, with the ladies chiefly on account of his high reputation for courage."
14847,"I must besides do the driver the justice to state that he did not forget to throw after me the largest of my trunks, which, unfortunately falling on my head, fractured my skull in a manner at once interesting and extraordinary."
14848,"It ran thus: ""Monsieur Simpson vill pardonne me for not compose de butefulle tong of his contree so vell as might."
14849,"They climb to the moonlit towers of ruined Rhine castles, and falter down black cobwebbed steps beneath the scattered stones of forgotten cities in Asia."
14850,"After one or two trivial remarks, to which I sullenly replied, he suddenly cried, looking at the bust, ""I am called like that victor Not a bad idea; the head will serve for my new coinage, and be an omen to all dutiful subjects of my future success."""
14851,I have much very much which it would give me the greatest pleasure to communicate.
14852,"The solution that seemed to me the most probable was that during his residence in London he had fallen in love with some unworthy person, and that his passion mastered him although he would not gratify it: he loved me too well to sacrifise me to this inclination, and that he had now visited this house that by reviving the memory of my mother whom he so passionately adored he might weaken the present impression."
14853,Was not acquainted with the Italian language.
14854,"Is not love a divinity, because it is immortal?"
14855,I might be driven into the wide Atlantic and feel all the tortures of starvation or be swallowed up in the immeasurable waters that roared and buffeted around me.
14856,"I accordingly went over to the plantation, and re instituted my inquiries among the older negroes of the place."
14857,"I now unpacked the condensing apparatus, and got it ready for immediate use."
14858,"Harris was a substantial merchant and seaman in the West India trade, connected with the firm of Obadiah Brown and his nephews."
14859,The neighbours grumblingly acquiesced in the inertia but the foetor none the less formed an additional count against the place.
14860,"The man, of course, was not permitted to get on board again, and was soon out of sight, he and his life preserver."
14861,"There came a period when people were curious enough to steal up and count the herd that grazed precariously on the steep hillside above the old farmhouse, and they could never find more than ten or twelve anaemic, bloodless looking specimens."
14862,"""Here then, at least,"" I shrieked aloud, ""can I never can I never be mistaken these are the full, and the black, and the wild eyes of my lost love of the lady of the LADY LIGEIA."""
14863,"Nothing so well assists the fancy, as an experimental knowledge of the matter in hand."
14864,"Then he would have recourse to the polite laughter they had taught him to use against the extravagance and artificiality of dreams; for he saw that the daily life of our world is every inch as extravagant and artificial, and far less worthy of respect because of its poverty in beauty and its silly reluctance to admit its own lack of reason and purpose."
14865,Forms affected my vision no longer.
14866,"At death, or metamorphosis, these creatures, enjoying the ultimate life immortality and cognizant of all secrets but the one, act all things and pass everywhere by mere volition: indwelling, not the stars, which to us seem the sole palpabilities, and for the accommodation of which we blindly deem space created but that SPACE itself that infinity of which the truly substantive vastness swallows up the star shadows blotting them out as non entities from the perception of the angels."
14867,"He granted for the sake of argument that some unnatural monster had really existed, but reminded me that even the most morbid perversion of Nature need not be unnamable or scientifically indescribable."
14868,"When I returned to Perdita, I found that she had already been informed of the success of my undertaking."
14869,In this manner the horizon of the æronaut would appear to be on a level with the car.
14870,"Upon these three I internally vowed the bitterest revenge, if ever I should be so happy as to get them within my clutches; and I believe nothing in the world but the pleasure of this anticipation prevented me from putting my plan of suicide into immediate execution, by blowing my brains out with a blunderbuss."
14871,"""Why, yes,"" said Dupin, drawlingly, between the whiffs of his meerschaum, ""I really think, G , you have not exerted yourself to the utmost in this matter."
14872,They were a consequence a result.
14873,"In vain our Protector and his partizans sought to conceal this truth; in vain, day after day, he appointed a period for the discussion of the new laws concerning hereditary rank and privilege; in vain he endeavoured to represent the evil as partial and temporary."
14874,"Several hundreds landed in Ireland, about the first of November, and took possession of such vacant habitations as they could find; seizing upon the superabundant food, and the stray cattle."
14875,"A light railing surrounded the garden of the cottage, which, low roofed, seemed to submit to the majesty of nature, and cower amidst the venerable remains of forgotten time."
14876,England was still secure.
14877,"We know of them, among other things, that they are always to their possessor, when inordinately possessed, a source of the liveliest enjoyment."
14878,"I had done all I could, and hoped I was in time."
14879,"Arter I got the book off Eb I uster look at it a lot, especial when I'd heerd Passon Clark rant o' Sundays in his big wig."
14880,The dogs slavered and crouched close to the feet of the fear numbed family.
14881,Cheers and loud acclamations followed the close of his speech.
14882,"Dupin said the last words in a very low tone, and very quietly."
14883,"It follows that the game of chess, in its effects upon mental character, is greatly misunderstood."
14884,For it had been a man.
14885,"Afternoon was far gone when he reached the foot, and at the bend half way up he paused to scan the outspread countryside golden and glorified in the slanting floods of magic poured out by a western sun."
14886,"Wyatt's three rooms were in the after cabin, which was separated from the main one by a slight sliding door, never locked even at night."
14887,"A number of buildings and trees intervened, when I had reached the plain, hiding the city from my view."
14888,"At the expiration of this period, however, I was thrown into an extremity of agitation by seeing her unfold, for the second time, the eye glass which hung at her side, fully confront me as before, and, disregarding the renewed buzz of the audience, survey me, from head to foot, with the same miraculous composure which had previously so delighted and confounded my soul."
14889,"""For heaven's love Windsor,"" cried Ryland, ""do not mock me with that title."
14890,"One voice made of many voices, resounded through the chamber; it syllabled the name of Raymond."
14891,"Miserable, unhappy wretch ""Other lessons were impressed upon me even more deeply."
14892,"His own view, postulating simply a building and location of markedly unsanitary qualities, had nothing to do with abnormality; but he realised that the very picturesqueness which aroused his own interest would in a boy's fanciful mind take on all manner of gruesome imaginative associations."
14893,"The clocks carved upon the furniture took to dancing as if bewitched, while those upon the mantel pieces could scarcely contain themselves for fury, and kept such a continual striking of thirteen, and such a frisking and wriggling of their pendulums as was really horrible to see."
14894,"For some time he rambled on with an almost feverish geniality, when it struck me to ask him how he came by so rare a book as Pigafetta's Regnum Congo."
14895,A luminous body imparts vibration to the luminiferous ether.
14896,"I quickly collected some branches, but they were wet and would not burn."
14897,They imply that I am a madman or a murderer probably I am mad.
14898,And in this second endeavor I succeeded.
14899,"Many steps above the Marchesa, and within the arch of the water gate, stood, in full dress, the Satyr like figure of Mentoni himself."
14900,"In such a school my disposition became rugged, but firm."
14901,"Company was irksome to me; when alone, I could fill my mind with the sights of heaven and earth; the voice of Henry soothed me, and I could thus cheat myself into a transitory peace."
14902,I now ventured to inquire the cause of the disturbance.
14903,"Throughout the siege of Rome he served bravely in the army of the defenders, and afterward followed the eagles of Belisarius to Alba, Porto, and Centumcellae."
14904,"If I no longer saw the fresh glow of youth on his matured countenance, if care had besieged his brow, ""And dug deep trenches in his beauty's field,"" if his hair, slightly mingled with grey, and his look, considerate even in its eagerness, gave signs of added years and past sufferings, yet there was something irresistibly affecting in the sight of one, lately snatched from the grave, renewing his career, untamed by sickness or disaster."
14905,"More clicking, and after a pause a piteous cry from Warren: ""Beat it For God's sake, put back the slab and beat it, Carter"" Something in the boyish slang of my evidently stricken companion unleashed my faculties."
14906,"The rumour went that Adrian had become how write the fatal word mad: that Lord Raymond was the favourite of the ex queen, her daughter's destined husband."
14907,"After passing several hours, we returned hopeless, most of my companions believing it to have been a form conjured up by my fancy."
14908,"New kinds of faces appeared in The Street; swarthy, sinister faces with furtive eyes and odd features, whose owners spoke unfamiliar words and placed signs in known and unknown characters upon most of the musty houses."
14909,Yet even that enemy of God and man had friends and associates in his desolation; I am alone.
14910,"Blasted as thou wert, my agony was still superior to thine, for the bitter sting of remorse will not cease to rankle in my wounds until death shall close them forever."
14911,"And why did you insist upon letting fall the bug, instead of a bullet, from the skull?"" ""Why, to be frank, I felt somewhat annoyed by your evident suspicions touching my sanity, and so resolved to punish you quietly, in my own way, by a little bit of sober mystification."
14912,One other incident occurred at the end of this summer.
14913,"""You can either conduct yourself as a lady should do, or you can quit the table forthwith take your choice."""
14914,"I, driven half mad, as I met party after party of the country people, in their holiday best, descending the hills, escaped to their cloud veiled summits, and looking on the sterile rocks about me, exclaimed ""They do not cry, long live the Earl"" Nor, when night came, accompanied by drizzling rain and cold, would I return home; for I knew that each cottage rang with the praises of Adrian; as I felt my limbs grow numb and chill, my pain served as food for my insane aversion; nay, I almost triumphed in it, since it seemed to afford me reason and excuse for my hatred of my unheeding adversary."
14915,"Determined upon further exploration, I felt in my pockets for flint and steel, and lit the unused torch which I had with me."
14916,"I had besides many books and a harp with which when despairing I could soothe my spirits, and raise myself to sympathy and love."
14917,"Many months passed, yet in the sour face of Musides came nothing of the sharp expectancy which the situation should arouse."
14918,"Why dost thou howl thus, O wind?"
14919,"Hereditary wealth afforded me an education of no common order, and a contemplative turn of mind enabled me to methodize the stores which early study very diligently garnered up."
14920,"At any rate we always add to our names the initials P. R. E. T. T. Y. B. L. U. E. B. A. T. C. H. that is to say, Philadelphia, Regular, Exchange, Tea, Total, Young, Belles, Lettres, Universal, Experimental, Bibliographical, Association, To, Civilize, Humanity one letter for each word, which is a decided improvement upon Lord Brougham."
14921,"Tell me, can I do nothing?"
14922,It will take an entire hen coop of picked chickens to get over that.
14923,To gain a partial relief from the general tension I busied myself by transferring this hardware to the vacant place with the aid of a handy three in one device including a screw driver which I kept on my key ring.
14924,"Endeavored to make out her name, but could not be sure of it."
14925,"There had been a slight earthquake tremor the night before, the most considerable felt in New England for some years; and Wilcox's imagination had been keenly affected."
14926,"They all died vast epochs of time before men came, but there were arts which could revive Them when the stars had come round again to the right positions in the cycle of eternity."
14927,"I would surely be very glad to get out of malodorous and fear shadowed Innsmouth, and wished there were some other vehicle than the bus driven by that sinister looking fellow Sargent."
14928,"Wolves and lions, and various monsters of the desert roared against him; while the grim Unreality hovered shaking his spectral dart, a solitary but invincible assailant."
14929,"""Him de syfe and de spade what Massa Will sis pon my buying for him in de town, and de debbils own lot of money I had to gib for em."" ""But what, in the name of all that is mysterious, is your 'Massa Will' going to do with scythes and spades?"" ""Dat's more dan I know, and debbil take me if I don't blieve 'tis more dan he know, too."
14930,never heerd o' my pa no more. . .
14931,"A low moan close to her ear followed, and the rustling increased; she heard a smothered voice breathe out, Water, Water several times; and then again a sigh heaved from the heart of the sufferer."
14932,"They were sounds occasioned by the artist in prying open the oblong box, by means of a chisel and mallet the latter being apparently muffled, or deadened, by some soft woollen or cotton substance in which its head was enveloped."
14933,"I tell you, you can't imagine what the thing is really like But I promise to keep you informed over the telephone of every move you see I've enough wire here to reach to the centre of the earth and back"" I can still hear, in memory, those coolly spoken words; and I can still remember my remonstrances."
14934,"M. Krempe had now commenced an eulogy on himself, which happily turned the conversation from a subject that was so annoying to me."
14935,Something in the air of the hoary town worked obscurely on his imagination.
14936,In their origin these laws were fashioned to embrace all contingencies which could lie in the Future.
14937,"I looked on the valley beneath; vast mists were rising from the rivers which ran through it and curling in thick wreaths around the opposite mountains, whose summits were hid in the uniform clouds, while rain poured from the dark sky and added to the melancholy impression I received from the objects around me. Alas Why does man boast of sensibilities superior to those apparent in the brute; it only renders them more necessary beings."
14938,"This, then, was the former Masonic Hall now given over to a degraded cult."
14939,"Thus it was that we lived all alone, knowing nothing of the world without the valley I, and my cousin, and her mother."
14940,"The silly moon and inconstant planets vary nightly their erratic dance; the sun itself, sovereign of the sky, ever and anon deserts his throne, and leaves his dominion to night and winter."
14941,"Fifteen months after their marriage I was born, and my mother died a few days after my birth."
14942,"""The author's observations on the artificial style,"" continued Ellison, ""are less objectionable."
14943,"The scenery of external nature, which others regard only with admiration, he loved with ardour: The sounding cataract Haunted him like a passion: the tall rock, The mountain, and the deep and gloomy wood, Their colours and their forms, were then to him An appetite; a feeling, and a love, That had no need of a remoter charm, By thought supplied, or any interest Unborrow'd from the eye."
14944,It was indeed in the place where I had seemed to see it.
14945,For some time I sat upon the rock that overlooks the sea of ice.
14946,"I found Merrival, the astronomer, with her."
14947,Once he heard of a man in the South who was shunned and feared for the blasphemous things he read in prehistoric books and clay tablets smuggled from India and Arabia.
14948,"Soon her door opened softly, and on her springing up, she heard a whisper, ""Not asleep yet,"" and the door again closed."
14949,"In the place of conical hats and muskets there were three cornered hats and small swords, and lace and snowy periwigs."
14950,"This may be the practice in law, but it is not the usage of reason."
14951,I heard all things in the heaven and in the earth.
14952,"These men, I say, theorize; and their theories are simply corrected, reduced, systematized cleared, little by little, of their dross of inconsistency until, finally, a perfect consistency stands apparent which even the most stolid admit, because it is a consistency, to be an absolute and an unquestionable truth."
14953,Let me then remember.
14954,"The old man's whisper grew fainter, and I found myself shuddering at the terrible and sincere portentousness of his intonation, even though I knew his tale could be nothing but drunken phantasy."
14955,But my attention was not confined to theories alone.
14956,A mountain walked or stumbled.
14957,"As we crossed into this street, a fruiterer, with a large basket upon his head, brushing quickly past us, thrust you upon a pile of paving stones collected at a spot where the causeway is undergoing repair."
14958,"To be brief upon a vile topic, none of the low finesse was omitted, so customary upon similar occasions that it is a just matter for wonder how any are still found so besotted as to fall its victim."
14959,There was Delphinus Polyglott.
14960,"I say insufferable; for the feeling was unrelieved by any of that half pleasurable, because poetic, sentiment, with which the mind usually receives even the sternest natural images of the desolate or terrible."
14961,The Irish followed their track in disorganized multitudes; each day encreasing; each day becoming more lawless.
14962,"Life is a hideous thing, and from the background behind what we know of it peer daemoniacal hints of truth which make it sometimes a thousandfold more hideous."
14963,I journied all day; every moment my misery encreased and the fever of my blood became intolerable.
14964,No incidents have hitherto befallen us that would make a figure in a letter.
14965,"The young woman arranged the cottage and prepared the food, and the youth departed after the first meal."
14966,"Over the library mantel in his home hung the exact replica of that picture, and all his life he had known and loved its original."
14967,"This was certainly the Sibyl's Cave; not indeed exactly as Virgil describes it, but the whole of this land had been so convulsed by earthquake and volcano, that the change was not wonderful, though the traces of ruin were effaced by time; and we probably owed the preservation of these leaves, to the accident which had closed the mouth of the cavern, and the swift growing vegetation which had rendered its sole opening impervious to the storm."
14968,Mathematical axioms are not axioms of general truth.
14969,"In truth, while that merit which consists in the mere avoiding demerit, appeals directly to the understanding, and can thus be foreshadowed in Rule, the loftier merit, which breathes and flames in invention or creation, can be apprehended solely in its results."
14970,"Furtive, shambling creatures stared cryptically in my direction, and more normal faces eyed me coldly and curiously."
14971,"""We had; but the reward offered is prodigious"" ""You include the grounds about the houses?"""
14972,If thrown from the shore a weight would have been attached.
14973,"Oh, my beloved father Indeed you made me miserable beyond all words, but how truly did I even then forgive you, and how entirely did you possess my whole heart while I endeavoured, as a rainbow gleams upon a cataract,D to soften thy tremendous sorrows."
14974,"As night advanced I placed a variety of combustibles around the cottage, and after having destroyed every vestige of cultivation in the garden, I waited with forced impatience until the moon had sunk to commence my operations."
14975,"""Assuredly a most benignant power built up the majestic fabric we inhabit, and framed the laws by which it endures."
14976,"""We'd better both go,"" he whispered."
14977,Vision or nightmare it may have been vision or nightmare I fervently hope it was yet it is all that my mind retains of what took place in those shocking hours after we left the sight of men.
14978,"In the winter of , however, the dreams began."
14979,"This, then, is the object of the present paper."
14980,I cannot say much in praise of such a life; and its pains far exceeded its pleasures.
14981,"I found another and a valuable link to enchain me to my fellow creatures; my point of sight was extended, and the inclinations and capacities of all human beings became deeply interesting to me."
14982,Might not this be the case with Mr. Windenough?
14983,"Having, as I thought, sufficiently collected my ideas, I now, with great caution and deliberation, put my hands behind my back, and unfastened the large iron buckle which belonged to the waistband of my inexpressibles."
14984,"He is a mathematician, and no poet."""
14985,"""Carter hurry It's no use you must go better one than two the slab "" A pause, more clicking, then the faint voice of Warren: ""Nearly over now don't make it harder cover up those damned steps and run for your life you're losing time So long, Carter won't see you again."""
14986,"Each day the soldiers of the garrison assaulted our advanced posts, and impeded the accomplishment of our works."
14987,His Grace thought of his game.
14988,"The summer passed tediously, for we trusted that winter would at least check the disease."
14989,"While on the subject of names, by the bye, I may mention a singular coincidence of sound attending the names of some of my immediate predecessors."
14990,"Accustomed as I am to this mode of travelling, I cannot get over a kind of giddiness whenever a balloon passes us in a current directly overhead."
14991,"A slight noise attracted my notice, and, looking to the floor, I saw several enormous rats traversing it."
14992,"That bearded host seemed young, yet looked out of eyes steeped in the elder mysteries; and from the tales of marvellous ancient things he related, it must be guessed that the village folk were right in saying he had communed with the mists of the sea and the clouds of the sky ever since there was any village to watch his taciturn dwelling from the plain below."
14993,"Ten thousand thanks to Henry for his kindness, his affection, and his many letters; we are sincerely grateful."
14994,"Opening into the garret where they caught him, was a closet, ten feet by eight, fitted up with some chemical apparatus, of which the object has not yet been ascertained."
14995,"The tale was quickly told, but it awakened various trains of reflection."
14996,And in front of the fireplace was no vestige of the giant doubled up form in nitre.
14997,"Adrian, whose health had always been weak, now suffered considerable aggravation of suffering from the effects of his wound."
14998,"Then I told him what I had found in an old diary kept between and , unearthed among family papers not a mile from where we were sitting; that, and the certain reality of the scars on my ancestor's chest and back which the diary described."
14999,"The houses were tall, peaked roofed, incredibly old, and crazily leaning backward, forward, and sidewise."
15000,"It lay beneath me like a chart and although I judged it to be still at no inconsiderable distance, the indentures of its surface were defined to my vision with a most striking and altogether unaccountable distinctness."
15001,"I asked, rubbing my hands over the blaze, and wishing the whole tribe of scarabæi at the devil."
15002,"Fire, the sword, and plague They may all be found in yonder city; on my head alone may they fall"" From this day Raymond's melancholy increased."
15003,"This time, on the fourteenth of November, my quest concerned itself mostly with the slopes of Cone Mountain and Maple Hill where they overlook the unfortunate hamlet, and I gave particular attention to the loose earth of the landslide region on the latter eminence."
15004,"Had my uncle referred to these cases by name instead of merely by number, I should have attempted some corroboration and personal investigation; but as it was, I succeeded in tracing down only a few."
15005,"With the first glimpse we obtain of it, the dawn of our success shall begin."
15006,"The idea of renewing my labours did not for one instant occur to me; the threat I had heard weighed on my thoughts, but I did not reflect that a voluntary act of mine could avert it."
15007,"He might with equal interest to us, have added a commentary, to describe the unknown and unimaginable lineaments of the creatures, who would then occupy the vacated dwelling of mankind."
15008,"I stepped on it, and fell violently on my face."
15009,"Alas the grim legion of sepulchral terrors cannot be regarded as altogether fanciful but, like the Demons in whose company Afrasiab made his voyage down the Oxus, they must sleep, or they will devour us they must be suffered to slumber, or we perish."
15010,"Perdita, in whom ambition was a covered fire until she married Raymond, which event was for a time the fulfilment of her hopes; Perdita will rejoice in the glory and advancement of her lord and, coyly and prettily, not be discontented with her share."
15011,"He had had much trouble in discovering the proper formula, for each type of organism was found to need a stimulus especially adapted to it."
15012,"The poop and beak of this boat arise high above the water, with sharp points, so that the general form is that of an irregular crescent."
15013,"NO MORE remarkable man ever lived than my friend, the young Ellison."
15014,"Of the cult, he said that he thought the centre lay amid the pathless deserts of Arabia, where Irem, the City of Pillars, dreams hidden and untouched."
15015,"After doing this, I really do not perceive that you can do any more."
15016,"From the swarming streets to the banks of the river, there descended innumerable flights of steps leading to bathing places, while the river itself seemed to force a passage with difficulty through the vast fleets of deeply burthened ships that far and wide encountered its surface."
15017,"The field of sculpture, although in its nature rigidly poetical, was too limited in its extent and in its consequences, to have occupied, at any time, much of his attention."
15018,"When it had become definitely known that such was the enormous wealth inherited, there were, of course, many speculations as to the mode of its disposal."
15019,Do you understand Mr. Rumgudgeon?
15020,In the privacy of his bureau he reclined languidly on that ottoman for which he sacrificed his loyalty in outbidding his king the notorious ottoman of Cadet.
15021,"While I stood thus in despair, conversing with a trio of friends upon the all absorbing subject of my heart, it so happened that the subject itself passed by."
15022,"The park was speckled by tents, whose flaunting colours and gaudy flags, waving in the sunshine, added to the gaiety of the scene."
15023,She answered the one with a gush of tears telling me that to be persuaded life and the goods of life were a cheap exchange.
15024,"I had heard no speech so far in this quarter, and was unaccountably anxious not to do so."
15025,"Here were the most entirely even, and the most brilliantly white of all conceivable teeth."
15026,"And all this, to be sure, was delicately put; not in broad words for my feelings might be hurt but Whispered so and so In dark hint soft and lowE with downcast eyes, and sympathizing smiles or whimpers; and I listened with quiet countenance while every nerve trembled; I that dared not utter aye or no to all this blasphemy."
15027,Do you remember on what occasion Justine Moritz entered our family?
15028,"The circumstance of the first elopement, as mentioned by Le Mercurie, tends to blend the idea of this seaman with that of the 'naval officer' who is first known to have led the unfortunate into crime."
15029,"I have a distinct recollection of frequently compressing my lips, putting my forefinger to the side of my nose, and making use of other gesticulations and grimaces common to men who, at ease in their arm chairs, meditate upon matters of intricacy or importance."
15030,"Undisturbed by oppressive reflections on the time, the place, and the company beneath his feet, he philosophically chipped away the stony brickwork; cursing when a fragment hit him in the face, and laughing when one struck the increasingly excited horse that pawed near the cypress tree."
15031,"The least congenial Member was one of the Founders, Sir John Hawkins, who hath since written many misrepresentations of our Society."
15032,"Simultaneously there developed something like a cold draught, which apparently swept past me from the direction of the distant sound."
15033,Animal fury and orgiastic licence here whipped themselves to daemoniac heights by howls and squawking ecstasies that tore and reverberated through those nighted woods like pestilential tempests from the gulfs of hell.
15034,"""Yes; I promise; and now let us be off, for we have no time to lose."""
15035,"And now, at last, as if by the rush of an ocean, my shuddering spirit is overwhelmed by the one grim Danger by the one spectral and ever prevalent idea."
15036,"The decay was worst close to the waterfront, though in its very midst I could spy the white belfry of a fairly well preserved brick structure which looked like a small factory."
15037,It's just over your left shoulder. . .
15038,"He was very deliberate, and spoke with an air of feeling slightly superior to what he said."
15039,It had escaped even the cutting bureau which had at the time of its issuance been avidly collecting material for my uncle's research.
15040,"We should bear in mind that, in general, it is the object of our newspapers rather to create a sensation to make a point than to further the cause of truth."
15041,"But he was checked; Evadne exacted a promise, that he should conceal from all her friends her existence in England."
15042,Let a veil be drawn over the unimaginable sensations of a guilty father; the secrets of so agonized a heart may not be made vulgar.
15043,"My descent, which claimed interest, if not respect, my former connection with Adrian, the favour of the ambassador, whose secretary I had been, and now my intimacy with Lord Raymond, gave me easy access to the fashionable and political circles of England."
15044,"""I must say also a few words to you, my dear cousin, of little darling William."
15045,"Indeed, during the brief period of her existence, the latter had received no impressions from the outward world, save such as might have been afforded by the narrow limits of her privacy."
15046,"Is not this a free country?"" ""Ay, sir, free enough for honest folks."
15047,Ellison became neither musician nor poet; although no man lived more profoundly enamored of music and poetry.
15048,"If your whole soul does not urge you to forgive me if your entire heart does not open wide its door to admit me to its very centre, forsake me, never speak to me again."
15049,"An unaccountable, and what I am compelled to consider a magnetic, sympathy of soul for soul, seemed to rivet, not only my vision, but my whole powers of thought and feeling, upon the admirable object before me."
15050,"The sciences, each straining in its own direction, have hitherto harmed us little; but some day the piecing together of dissociated knowledge will open up such terrifying vistas of reality, and of our frightful position therein, that we shall either go mad from the revelation or flee from the deadly light into the peace and safety of a new dark age."
15051,"There were other points to be ascertained, but these most excited my curiosity the last in especial, from the immensely important character of its consequences."
15052,"""'Where do these friends reside?' ""'Near this spot.'"
15053,"They sigh one unto the other in that solitude, and stretch towards the heaven their long and ghastly necks, and nod to and fro their everlasting heads."
15054,"""A thousand pounds,"" said I. ""A thousand pounds?"" said he. ""Precisely,"" said I. ""A thousand pounds?"" said he. ""Just so,"" said I. ""You shall have them,"" said he. ""What a piece of virtu"" So he drew me a check upon the spot, and took a sketch of my nose."
15055,My passionate and indignant appeals were lost upon them.
15056,"We've had enough of the other stuff, but I for one need something."
15057,"""Oh, no, fie Robert's not quite so bad as that."
15058,"To judge from the external appearance of the box, it is divided into five compartments three cupboards of equal dimensions, and two drawers occupying that portion of the chest lying beneath the cupboards."
15059,"Thus, losing our identity, that of which we are chiefly conscious, we glory in the continuity of our species, and learn to regard death without terror."
15060,"While I thus feasted my eyes, I perceived, at last, to my great trepidation, by an almost imperceptible start on the part of the lady, that she had become suddenly aware of the intensity of my gaze."
15061,"""The three of us my two brothers and myself had crossed over to the islands about two o'clock P. M., and had soon nearly loaded the smack with fine fish, which, we all remarked, were more plenty that day than we had ever known them."
15062,"The mantelpieces are wide and high, and have not only time pieces and cabbages sculptured over the front, but a real time piece, which makes a prodigious ticking, on the top in the middle, with a flower pot containing a cabbage standing on each extremity by way of outrider."
15063,For there was yet another tenant of our chamber in the person of young Zoilus.
15064,"The principle of the vis inertiæ, for example, seems to be identical in physics and metaphysics."
15065,"I almost saw them, but I knew how to stop."
15066,"The slight elevation which formed the lower boundary of this little domain, was crowned by a neat stone wall, of sufficient height to prevent the escape of the deer."
15067,"The attempt, however, was enough to disturb my balance; so that I had to stagger forward several steps to avoid falling."
15068,"This he would sometimes draw from his tattered pocket, carefully unwrap from its covering of tissue paper, and gaze upon for hours with an expression of ineffable sadness and tenderness."
15069,"He besought me, therefore, to leave my solitary isle and to meet him at Perth, that we might proceed southwards together."
15070,"From that chamber, and from that mansion, I fled aghast."
15071,The patient's extremities were of an icy coldness.
15072,"In short, the good burghers were fond of their sauer kraut, but then they were proud of their clocks."
15073,"Idris could not refrain from a smile, as she listened; she had already gathered from him that his family was alive and in health; though not apt to forget the precipice of time on which she stood, yet I could perceive that she was amused for a moment, by the contrast between the contracted view we had so long taken of human life, and the seven league strides with which Merrival paced a coming eternity."
15074,"For the aeons that I dwelt there I wandered blissfully through gardens where quaint pagodas peep from pleasing clumps of bushes, and where the white walks are bordered with delicate blossoms."
15075,"Write 'Il pover 'huomo che non se'n era accorto, Andava combattendo, e era morto.' ""That's Italian, you perceive from Ariosto."
15076,"They're hard to get started, but once they do get started they never let up."
15077,"""It is,"" said Dupin; ""and, upon inquiring of the boy by what means he effected the thorough identification in which his success consisted, I received answer as follows: 'When I wish to find out how wise, or how stupid, or how good, or how wicked is any one, or what are his thoughts at the moment, I fashion the expression of my face, as accurately as possible, in accordance with the expression of his, and then wait to see what thoughts or sentiments arise in my mind or heart, as if to match or correspond with the expression.'"
15078,"""Superb"" said his guests: and next morning her Grace of Bless my Soul paid me a visit."
15079,"His passions, always his masters, acquired fresh strength, from the long sleep in which love had cradled them, the clinging weight of destiny bent him down; he was goaded, tortured, fiercely impatient of that worst of miseries, the sense of remorse."
15080,"We put the boat on the wind, but could make no headway at all for the eddies, and I was upon the point of proposing to return to the anchorage, when, looking astern, we saw the whole horizon covered with a singular copper colored cloud that rose with the most amazing velocity."
15081,That night something of youth and beauty died in the elder world.
15082,"Yet I remember ah how should I forget? the deep midnight, the Bridge of Sighs, the beauty of woman, and the Genius of Romance that stalked up and down the narrow canal."
15083,For at a closer glance I saw that the moonlit waters between the reef and the shore were far from empty.
15084,"As to the where, it was Yorktown wherever that was, and as to the what, it was General Cornwallis no doubt some wealthy dealer in corn."
15085,"In short, no position can be attained on the wide surface of the natural earth, from which an artistical eye, looking steadily, will not find matter of offence in what is termed the ""composition"" of the landscape."
15086,"But now they have betaken themselves to unknown Kadath in the cold waste where no man treads, and are grown stern, having no higher peak whereto to flee at the coming of men."
15087,"My uncle blamed his old age, Wilcox afterward said, for his slowness in recognising both hieroglyphics and pictorial design."
15088,"I shall discharge this decanter of wine at your image in yonder mirror, and thus fulfil all the spirit, if not the exact letter, of resentment for your insult, while the necessity of physical violence to your real person will be obviated."""
15089,Yet these noble exceptions from the general misrule served but to strengthen it by opposition.
15090,"But may God shield and deliver me from the fangs of the Arch Fiend No sooner had the reverberation of my blows sunk into silence, than I was answered by a voice from within the tomb by a cry, at first muffled and broken, like the sobbing of a child, and then quickly swelling into one long, loud, and continuous scream, utterly anomalous and inhuman a howl a wailing shriek, half of horror and half of triumph, such as might have arisen only out of hell, conjointly from the throats of the dammed in their agony and of the demons that exult in the damnation."
15091,Audacity: Your diddler is audacious.
15092,The vibrations generate similar ones within the retina; these again communicate similar ones to the optic nerve.
15093,"Leaving doors No. and No. open as well as the drawer, and door No. I, the exhibiter now goes round to the back of the main compartment, and, unlocking another door there, displays clearly all the interior of the main compartment, by introducing a candle behind it and within it."
15094,"For three months Keziah and Brown Jenkin had not been near Joe's room, nor near Paul Choynski's room, nor anywhere else and it meant no good when they held off like that."
15095,"The editor here proceeds to argue that the body must have been in the water ""not three days merely, but, at least, five times three days,"" because it was so far decomposed that Beauvais had great difficulty in recognizing it."
15096,"He injected new blood, joined certain veins, arteries, and nerves at the headless neck, and closed the ghastly aperture with engrafted skin from an unidentified specimen which had borne an officer's uniform."
15097,"It was not, and could not have been, arrived at by any inductive reasoning."
15098,I have loved thee; and in my days both of happiness and sorrow I have peopled your solitudes with wild fancies of my own creation.
15099,"This I could scarcely have believed had it been anybody but Mr. Blackwood, who assured me of it."
15100,It was almost impossible to believe that they were not absolutely suspended in the air.
15101,"No? Wal, Mis' Corey, ef they was on the glen rud this side o' the glen, an' ain't got to your haouse yet, I calc'late they must go into the glen itself."
15102,"The citizens talked with one another of the affair, and marvelled not a little."
15103,On the roof is a vast quantity of tiles with long curly ears.
15104,I am placed in the most difficult circumstances.
15105,"Let me find the earthly dwelling of my beloved; let us rescue that from common dust, so that in times to come men may point to the sacred tomb, and name it his then to other thoughts, and a new course of life, or what else fate, in her cruel tyranny, may have marked out for me."""
15106,"'Come quickly, O death but be sure and don't let me see you coming, lest the pleasure I shall feel at your appearance should unfortunately bring me back again to life.'"
15107,"I was now trying to get the better of the stupor that had come over me, and to collect my senses so as to see what was to be done, when I felt somebody grasp my arm."
15108,"Tell me, dearest Victor."
15109,"That evening, just as twilight fell, he finished his terrible perusal and sank back exhausted."
15110,Your objection is answered with an ease which is nearly in the ratio of its apparent unanswerability.
15111,"She told me that all the family were dead, except Merrival himself, who had gone mad mad, she called it, yet on questioning her further, it appeared that he was possessed only by the delirium of excessive grief."
15112,"I refer to a sort of cloudy whitish pattern on the dirt floor a vague, shifting deposit of mould or nitre which we sometimes thought we could trace amidst the sparse fungous growths near the huge fireplace of the basement kitchen."
15113,"Although he deserts his post in London, he may be of the greatest service in the north of England, by receiving and assisting travellers, and contributing to supply the metropolis with food."
15114,"Then beyond the hill's crest I saw Kingsport outspread frostily in the gloaming; snowy Kingsport with its ancient vanes and steeples, ridgepoles and chimney pots, wharves and small bridges, willow trees and graveyards; endless labyrinths of steep, narrow, crooked streets, and dizzy church crowned central peak that time durst not touch; ceaseless mazes of colonial houses piled and scattered at all angles and levels like a child's disordered blocks; antiquity hovering on grey wings over winter whitened gables and gambrel roofs; fanlights and small paned windows one by one gleaming out in the cold dusk to join Orion and the archaic stars."
15115,Still I was at a loss to gather the purport of his disconnected speech.
15116,During this voyage we passed many willowy islands and saw several beautiful towns.
15117,"I bought, for a song, a sixteenth of the ""Snapping Turtle"": that was all."
15118,Soon these burning miseries will be extinct.
15119,"And for this reason when a man's diddled we say he's ""done."""
15120,"There Mazurewicz had found something monstrous or thought he had, for no one else could quite agree with him despite the undeniable queerness of the prints."
15121,She came and departed as a shadow.
15122,"In stature he is nearly my own height; that is, about five feet eight inches."
15123,"Elizabeth, my love, you must supply my place to my younger children."
15124,"Observe, here, the laughable confusion of thought No one not even L'Etoile disputes the murder committed on the body found."
15125,No sooner had the venerable practitioner saved his colleague than he himself succumbed to the grim enemy he had fought.
15126,"I now considered that, provided in my passage I found the medium I had imagined, and provided that it should prove to be actually and essentially what we denominate atmospheric air, it could make comparatively little difference at what extreme state of rarefaction I should discover it that is to say, in regard to my power of ascending for the gas in the balloon would not only be itself subject to rarefaction partially similar in proportion to the occurrence of which, I could suffer an escape of so much as would be requisite to prevent explosion, but, being what it was, would, at all events, continue specifically lighter than any compound whatever of mere nitrogen and oxygen."
15127,"Even I, depressed in mind, and my spirits continually agitated by gloomy feelings, even I was pleased."
15128,"The main fury of the blast had already blown over, and we apprehended little danger from the violence of the wind; but we looked forward to its total cessation with dismay; well believing, that, in our shattered condition, we should inevitably perish in the tremendous swell which would ensue."
15129,"Disliking the dinginess of the single restaurant I had seen, I bought a fair supply of cheese crackers and ginger wafers to serve as a lunch later on."
15130,"Why should he lose this, now that added years, prudence, and the pledge which his marriage gave to his country, ought to encrease, rather than diminish his claims to confidence?"
15131,Spells might be all right but suppose they weren't?
15132,"I shuddered as I assigned to them in imagination a sensitive and sentient power, and even when unassisted by the lips, a capability of moral expression."
15133,"The dissecting room and the slaughter house furnished many of my materials; and often did my human nature turn with loathing from my occupation, whilst, still urged on by an eagerness which perpetually increased, I brought my work near to a conclusion."
15134,"This object was the partly crushed skeleton of a huge, diseased rat, whose abnormalities of form are still a topic of debate and source of singular reticence among the members of Miskatonic's department of comparative anatomy."
15135,"The forms of those bodies are accurately such as, within a given surface, to include the greatest possible amount of matter; while the surfaces themselves are so disposed as to accommodate a denser population than could be accommodated on the same surfaces otherwise arranged."
15136,"similarly entitled, the perpetration of a miserable penny a liner, mendicant, and cut throat, connected in the capacity of scullion, we believe, with one of the indecent prints about the purlieus of the city; we beg them, for God's sake, not to confound the compositions."
15137,"We shall see that at which dogs howl in the dark, and that at which cats prick up their ears after midnight."
15138,"""You begin late,"" said I, ironically, ""marriage is usually considered the grave, and not the cradle of love."
15139,Then he had departed alone.
15140,"He, her beloved, the sole and eternal object of her passionate tenderness, was restored her."
15141,"""The sun rose; I heard the voices of men and knew that it was impossible to return to my retreat during that day."
15142,"They had hanged four kinsmen of mine for witchcraft in , but I did not know just where."
15143,"To accomplish the great desideratum of ærial navigation, it was very generally supposed that some exceedingly complicated application must be made of some unusually profound principle in dynamics."
15144,"My honor is interested, and, to mention a great secret, the reward is enormous."
15145,"""Come in,"" said Dupin, in a cheerful and hearty tone."
15146,"Yet she was meanly dressed, a coarse blue petticoat and a linen jacket being her only garb; her fair hair was plaited but not adorned: she looked patient yet sad."
15147,"I did not see him: my soul was in my words, my eyes could not perceive that which was; while a vision of Adrian's form, tainted by pestilence, and sinking in death, floated before them."
15148,"I knew what the old man felt, and pitied him, although I chuckled at heart."
15149,"They put it into a bed and rubbed it, and Daniel went to the town for an apothecary, but life was quite gone."
15150,"In his teeth the villain held the bell rope, which he kept jerking about with his head, raising such a clatter that my ears ring again even to think of it."
15151,The old bookseller had told him that only five copies were known to have survived the shocked edicts of the priests and lawgivers against it and that all of these were locked up with frightened care by custodians who had ventured to begin a reading of the hateful black letter.
15152,"A tub had caught all ha ha When I had made an end of these labors, it was four o'clock still dark as midnight."
15153,"My health and appearance grew steadily worse, till finally I was forced to give up my position and adopt the static, secluded life of an invalid."
15154,"We ascertain, too, very distinctly, from this admirable inscription, the how as well as the where and the what, of the great surrender in question."
15155,"With a beating heart she expected another visit, and when after an interval her chamber was again invaded, having first assured herself that the intruders were her mother and an attendant, she composed herself to feigned sleep."
15156,"The tears rushed into the eyes of Idris, while Alfred and Evelyn brought now a favourite rose tree, now a marble vase beautifully carved, insisting that these must go, and exclaiming on the pity that we could not take the castle and the forest, the deer and the birds, and all accustomed and cherished objects along with us."
15157,"""But then,"" cried the old lady, at the top of her voice, ""your Monsieur Boullard was a madman, and a very silly madman at best; for who, allow me to ask you, ever heard of a human tee totum?"
15158,"I said to myself, let him receive sympathy and these struggles will cease."
15159,"They were not altogether crows, nor moles, nor buzzards, nor ants, nor vampire bats, nor decomposed human beings; but something I cannot and must not recall."
15160,"It will be found, in fact, that the ingenious are always fanciful, and the truly imaginative never otherwise than analytic."
15161,"Seething, stewing, surging, bubbling like serpents' slime it rolled up and out of that yawning hole, spreading like a septic contagion and streaming from the cellar at every point of egress streaming out to scatter through the accursed midnight forests and strew fear, madness, and death."
15162,No one certainly ever enjoyed the pleasures of composition more intensely than I.
15163,"""Having adopted this view of the subject, I had little further hesitation."
15164,"I had written so much to the proconsul that he had become gravely interested, and had resolved to make a personal inquiry into the horror."
15165,"Perhaps its effects are not so permanent; but they are, while they last, as violent and intense."
15166,"He was watching the rising sun, while with one arm he encircled his beloved's waist; she looked on him, the sun of her life, with earnest gaze of mingled anxiety and tenderness."
15167,"He guessed it was in the attic at home in Boston, and dimly remembered bribing Parks with half his week's allowance to help him open the box and keep quiet about it; but when he remembered this, the face of Parks came up very strangely, as if the wrinkles of long years had fallen upon the brisk little Cockney."
15168,When I had lived here some time other animals visited me and a fox came every day for a portion of food appropriated for him would suffer me to pat his head.
15169,"There were, then, no secret issues."
15170,"A small island, fairly laughing with flowers in full bloom, and affording little more space than just enough for a picturesque little building, seemingly a fowl house arose from the lake not far from its northern shore to which it was connected by means of an inconceivably light looking and yet very primitive bridge."
15171,"Proceeding, in the same direction, yet another thousand miles, I anticipate the rising by two hours another thousand, and I anticipate it by three hours, and so on, until I go entirely round the globe, and back to this spot, when, having gone twenty four thousand miles east, I anticipate the rising of the London sun by no less than twenty four hours; that is to say, I am a day in advance of your time."
15172,"On drawing nearer to this, however, its chasm like appearance vanishes; a new outlet from the bay is discovered to the left in which direction the wall is also seen to sweep, still following the general course of the stream."
15173,"""I thank you,"" he replied, ""for your sympathy, but it is useless; my fate is nearly fulfilled."
15174,"The night waned; and still, with a bosom full of bitter thoughts of the one only and supremely beloved, I remained gazing upon the body of Rowena."
15175,"""Ugh ugh ugh"" chuckled Tarpaulin without heeding the general excitation, ""ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh I was saying,"" said he, ""I was saying when Mr. King Pest poked in his marlin spike, that as for the matter of two or three gallons more or less of Black Strap, it was a trifle to a tight sea boat like myself not overstowed but when it comes to drinking the health of the Devil whom God assoilzie and going down upon my marrow bones to his ill favored majesty there, whom I know, as well as I know myself to be a sinner, to be nobody in the whole world, but Tim Hurlygurly the stage player why it's quite another guess sort of a thing, and utterly and altogether past my comprehension."""
15176,"""Every conversation of the cottagers now opened new wonders to me."
15177,"I seemed desperately anxious to accompany my friend into those sepulchral depths, yet he proved inflexibly obdurate."
15178,"In the cell with us was one nurse, a mediocre fellow who did not understand the purpose of the apparatus, or think to inquire into my course."
15179,"The generous nature of Safie was outraged by this command; she attempted to expostulate with her father, but he left her angrily, reiterating his tyrannical mandate."
15180,"The play was Macbeth the first actor of the age was there to exert his powers to drug with irreflection the auditors; such a medicine I yearned for, so I entered."
15181,"Besides this ship, I saw nothing but the ocean and the sky, and the sun, which had long arisen."
15182,"I have heard him called inconstant of purpose when he deserted, for the sake of love, the hope of sovereignty, and when he abdicated the protectorship of England, men blamed his infirmity of purpose."
15183,"Upon this latter shelf, and exactly beneath one of the rims of the keg, a small earthern pitcher was deposited."
15184,My attention at this time was solely directed towards my plan of introducing myself into the cottage of my protectors.
15185,I know what has happened.
15186,"I was not so seriously hurt, but was covered with welts and contusions of the most bewildering character, including the print of a split hoof."
15187,"After he went to Ireland Barry wrote me often, and told me how under his care the grey castle was rising tower by tower to its ancient splendour; how the ivy was climbing slowly over the restored walls as it had climbed so many centuries ago, and how the peasants blessed him for bringing back the old days with his gold from over the sea."
15188,"It is a foolish sentiment for one who is not a materialist, yet, methinks, even in that dark cell, I may feel that my inanimate dust mingles with yours, and thus have a companion in decay."""
15189,"For the first time the feelings of revenge and hatred filled my bosom, and I did not strive to control them, but allowing myself to be borne away by the stream, I bent my mind towards injury and death."
15190,The individual who purloined it is known; this beyond a doubt; he was seen to take it.
15191,"Here it is: ""'A good glass in the bishop's hostel in the devil's seat forty one degrees and thirteen minutes northeast and by north main branch seventh limb east side shoot from the left eye of the death's head a bee line from the tree through the shot fifty feet out.'"""
15192,"""The fruiterer you astonish me I know no fruiterer whomsoever."""
15193,"Their waving translucent arms, guided by the detestable piping of those unseen flutes, beckoned in uncanny rhythm to a throng of lurching labourers who followed dog like with blind, brainless, floundering steps as if dragged by a clumsy but resistless daemon will."
15194,"But save for his face, Romero was not in any way suggestive of nobility."
15195,"Books, indeed, were his sole luxuries, and in Paris these are easily obtained."
15196,"We caught him flying, all smoking and foaming with rage, from the burning stables of the Castle Berlifitzing."
15197,"From bowers beyond our view came bursts of song and snatches of lyric harmony, interspersed with faint laughter so delicious that I urged the rowers onward in my eagerness to reach the scene."
15198,"""Let us reflect now upon 'the traces of a struggle;' and let me ask what these traces have been supposed to demonstrate."
15199,"His limbs were in proportion, and I had selected his features as beautiful."
15200,"No sofa has been sold no money received except by the diddler, who played shop keeper for the nonce."
15201,"""For my part,"" said I, ""I am too well convinced of the worth of our friend, and the rich harvest of benefits that all England would reap from his Protectorship, to deprive my countrymen of such a blessing, if he consent to bestow it on them."""
15202,"I was anxious and watchful, while my right hand grasped a pistol which was hidden in my bosom; every sound terrified me, but I resolved that I would sell my life dearly and not shrink from the conflict until my own life or that of my adversary was extinguished."
15203,"I awoke to red madness and the mockery of diabolism, as farther and farther down inconceivable vistas that phobic and crystalline anguish retreated and reverberated."
15204,"They said it had been there before D'Iberville, before La Salle, before the Indians, and before even the wholesome beasts and birds of the woods."
15205,It lies on the surface of the bay with the proud grace of a swan.
15206,"A shriek had been heard by a neighbour during the night; suspicion of foul play had been aroused; information had been lodged at the police office, and they the officers had been deputed to search the premises."
15207,"This mistake made a difference of about two inches and a half in the 'shot' that is to say, in the position of the peg nearest the tree; and had the treasure been beneath the 'shot,' the error would have been of little moment; but 'the shot,' together with the nearest point of the tree, were merely two points for the establishment of a line of direction; of course the error, however trivial in the beginning, increased as we proceeded with the line, and by the time we had gone fifty feet, threw us quite off the scent."
15208,"When they got old an' begun to shew it, they was kep' hid until they felt like takin' to the water an' quittin' the place."
15209,"In an instant afterward he rapped, with a gentle touch, at my door, and entered, bearing a lamp."
15210,"The lurking fear dwelt in the shunned and deserted Martense mansion, which crowned the high but gradual eminence whose liability to frequent thunderstorms gave it the name of Tempest Mountain."
15211,"Perhaps you will have the goodness to promise me not to marry during that interval?"""
15212,"She is a widow, and much older than Manoir; but she is very much admired, and a favourite with everybody."
15213,His name is a derivation of the Greek Simia what great fools are antiquarians But see see yonder scampers a ragged little urchin.
15214,"In a fit of heroism I determined to go alone; to quit you, the life of my life, and not to see you again untill I might guiltlessly."
15215,"This, however, did not vex me; it would not be heard through the wall."
15216,On the same day I paid M. Waldman a visit.
15217,"""You clothe your meaning, Perdita,"" I replied, ""in powerful words, yet that meaning is selfish and unworthy of you."
15218,I should certainly have died if you had not hastened to me.
15219,"In subsequent decades as new inventions, new names, and new events appeared one by one in the book of history, people would now and then recall wonderingly how Carter had years before let fall some careless word of undoubted connexion with what was then far in the future."
15220,"The first was, that, as a general rule, the larger the bodies were, the more rapid their descent the second, that, between two masses of equal extent, the one spherical, and the other of any other shape, the superiority in speed of descent was with the sphere the third, that, between two masses of equal size, the one cylindrical, and the other of any other shape, the cylinder was absorbed the more slowly."
15221,"Have I not succeeded in breaking down the barrier; have I not shewn you worlds that no other living men have seen?"""
15222,"And day by day that Romnod who had been a small boy in granite Teloth grew coarser and redder with wine, till he dreamed less and less, and listened with less delight to the songs of Iranon."
15223,"In the final of the Somnambula, she brought about a most remarkable effect at the words: Ah non guinge uman pensiero Al contento ond 'io son piena."
15224,"Yes he was really forming words, and I could grasp a fair proportion of them."
15225,"The alteration, however, in the entire expression of the General's countenance was instantaneous and surprising."
15226,"It had been originally written London, and afterwards carefully overscored not, however, so effectually as to conceal the word from a scrutinizing eye."
15227,"I will seek out their writings forthwith, and peruse them with deliberate care."
15228,"We subject the unlooked for and unimagined, to the mathematical formulae of the schools."
15229,"These volumes were my study day and night, and my familiarity with them increased that regret which I had felt, as a child, on learning that my father's dying injunction had forbidden my uncle to allow me to embark in a seafaring life."
15230,Why not for ever thus?
15231,"It hasn't been fed since the second of August, when Wilbur came here to his death, and at that rate. . ."
15232,"This action, so remarkable in an American theatre, attracted very general observation, and gave rise to an indefinite movement, or buzz, among the audience, which for a moment filled me with confusion, but produced no visible effect upon the countenance of Madame Lalande."
15233,"With trembling hand I conveyed the instruments out of the room, but I reflected that I ought not to leave the relics of my work to excite the horror and suspicion of the peasants; and I accordingly put them into a basket, with a great quantity of stones, and laying them up, determined to throw them into the sea that very night; and in the meantime I sat upon the beach, employed in cleaning and arranging my chemical apparatus."
15234,Now the irony is this.
15235,The door of the cathedral stood invitingly open.
15236,"I was no longer a young man, though but twenty one winters had chilled my bodily frame."
15237,"I have lived in the same house with her, at one time for five and at another for nearly two years."
15238,Seems they was some of the things alive in the stone buildin's when the island come up sudden to the surface.
15239,"From that memorable night, I dismissed forever my charnel apprehensions, and with them vanished the cataleptic disorder, of which, perhaps, they had been less the consequence than the cause."
15240,I sickened as I read.
15241,"I was shown up a broad winding staircase of mosaics, into an apartment whose unparalleled splendor burst through the opening door with an actual glare, making me blind and dizzy with luxuriousness."
15242,"Her present visit to London tended to augment her state of inquietude, by shewing in its utmost extent the ravages occasioned by pestilence."
15243,"Ligeia Ligeia in studies of a nature more than all else adapted to deaden impressions of the outward world, it is by that sweet word alone by Ligeia that I bring before mine eyes in fancy the image of her who is no more."
15244,"He admitted no visitors at all with the exception, one day, of a very stupid looking young gentleman of whom he had no reason to be afraid."
15245,"I received him at the door of my cottage and leading him solemnly into the room, I said: ""My friend, I wish to die."
15246,"""Am I for ever,"" he cried, ""to be the sport of fortune Must man, the heaven climber, be for ever the victim of the crawling reptiles of his species Were I as you, Lionel, looking forward to many years of life, to a succession of love enlightened days, to refined enjoyments and fresh springing hopes, I might yield, and breaking my General's staff, seek repose in the glades of Windsor."
15247,"Yet I did not hurry too precipitately, for there were architectural details worth viewing at every silent corner; and I could easily, I calculated, cover the necessary distance in a half hour."
15248,Gradually I came to find Herbert West himself more horrible than anything he did that was when it dawned on me that his once normal scientific zeal for prolonging life had subtly degenerated into a mere morbid and ghoulish curiosity and secret sense of charnel picturesqueness.
15249,But the alteration stopped not here I neither hoped nor desired it to stop.
15250,"This prolongation of the cusps beyond the semicircle, I thought, must have arisen from the refraction of the sun's rays by the moon's atmosphere."
15251,The customs of the world are so many conventional follies.
15252,"Manton had two malignant wounds in the chest, and some less severe cuts or gougings in the back."
15253,I had not quite crossed the street when I heard a muttering band advancing along Washington from the north.
15254,"Oh, no The only joy that he can now know will be when he composes his shattered spirit to peace and death."
15255,"The other three were what sent him unconscious for they were living entities about eight feet high, shaped precisely like the spiky images on the balustrade, and propelling themselves by a spider like wriggling of their lower set of starfish arms."
15256,"There was another circumstance, too, which interested me much."
15257,"One single gale such as now befriends us let such a tempest whirl forward a balloon for four or five days these gales often last longer and the voyager will be easily borne, in that period, from coast to coast."
15258,"The result was discoverable, he added, in that silent, yet importunate and terrible influence which for centuries had moulded the destinies of his family, and which made him what I now saw him what he was."
15259,"Accordingly abandoning it as a route, I cautiously moved the bedstead against it to hamper any attack which might be made on it later from the next room."
15260,"Henry Wheeler, trembling, turned the rescued telescope on the mountain to see what he might."
15261,"It was evident that if the balloon held its present course, it would soon arrive above the Frozen Ocean, and I had now little doubt of ultimately seeing the Pole."
15262,"""I fear you are right there,"" said the Prefect."
15263,"It is all very well to talk about the facilis descensus Averni; but in all kinds of climbing, as Catalani said of singing, it is far more easy to get up than to come down."
15264,"I concluded the most wildly enthusiastic epistle ever penned, with a frank declaration of my worldly circumstances of my affluence and with an offer of my heart and of my hand."
15265,"No none of these things accompanied our fall The balmy air of spring, breathed from nature's ambrosial home, invested the lovely earth, which wakened as a young mother about to lead forth in pride her beauteous offspring to meet their sire who had been long absent."
15266,Even I was dispatched to a distant part of the field.
15267,"What, though life and the system of social intercourse were a wilderness, a tiger haunted jungle Through the midst of its errors, in the depths of its savage recesses, there was a disentangled and flowery pathway, through which they might journey in safety and delight."
15268,"Sometimes I have thought, that, obscure and chaotic as they are, they owe their present form to me, their decipherer."
15269,"He always remained lame, for the great tendons had been severed; but I think the greatest lameness was in his soul."
15270,"In spite of my malignity, it softened and attracted me."
15271,"We shall start immediately, and be back, at all events, by sunrise."""
15272,"I was aware, however, that his very ancient family had been noted, time out of mind, for a peculiar sensibility of temperament, displaying itself, through long ages, in many works of exalted art, and manifested, of late, in repeated deeds of munificent yet unobtrusive charity, as well as in a passionate devotion to the intricacies, perhaps even more than to the orthodox and easily recognisable beauties, of musical science."
15273,"For many nights there had been a hollow drumming on the hills, and at last the ædile Tib."
15274,Its marvellous effect lay altogether in its artistic arrangement as a picture.
15275,"The way was rough and obscure, and never did they seem nearer to Oonai the city of lutes and dancing; but in the dusk as the stars came out Iranon would sing of Aira and its beauties and Romnod would listen, so that they were both happy after a fashion."
15276,That gland is the great sense organ of organs I have found out.
15277,"Raymond was only the more excited by this consideration to discover him; impelled by the interest he took in obscure talent, he therefore ordered a person skilled in such matters, to follow the Greek the next time he came, and observe the house in which he should enter."
15278,"Many times afterward I saw him under the full moon, and ever did he beckon me."
15279,Whether the events of that night were of reality or illusion I shall never ascertain.
15280,Her own feeling was as entire as at its birth.
15281,"He tottered, clutched at the curtains as I had done before, and wriggled his head wildly, like a hunted animal."
15282,I knew what he meant by that one word well enough I knew what he wished to make me understand.
15283,"Beyond the limits of the city arose, in frequent majestic groups, the palm and the cocoa, with other gigantic and weird trees of vast age, and here and there might be seen a field of rice, the thatched hut of a peasant, a tank, a stray temple, a gypsy camp, or a solitary graceful maiden taking her way, with a pitcher upon her head, to the banks of the magnificent river."
15284,"My father and Ernest yet lived, but the former sunk under the tidings that I bore."
15285,"It was dismal sitting there on rickety boxes in the pitchy darkness, but we smoked pipes and occasionally flashed our pocket lamps about."
15286,"In the mad intensity of my devotion, I forgot everything but the presence and the majestic loveliness of the vision which confronted my gaze."
15287,"Rushing then with all his force against the fatal hogshead full of October ale and Hugh Tarpaulin, he rolled it over and over in an instant."
15288,"If a false move be made by his antagonist, he raps briskly on the box with the fingers of his right hand, shakes his head roughly, and replacing the piece falsely moved, in its former situation, assumes the next move himself."
15289,"Polluted by crimes and torn by the bitterest remorse, where can I find rest but in death?"
15290,"The bent, goatish giant before him seemed like the spawn of another planet or dimension; like something only partly of mankind, and linked to black gulfs of essence and entity that stretch like titan phantasms beyond all spheres of force and matter, space and time."
15291,"We sat in his library, and he spoke of the old Greek sages, and of the power which they had acquired over the minds of men, through the force of love and wisdom only."
15292,"Of what followed, members of ""The Greatest Show on Earth"" do not like to speak."
15293,I looked at it for some minutes: it was a spade.
15294,The mask which concealed the visage was made so nearly to resemble the countenance of a stiffened corpse that the closest scrutiny must have had difficulty in detecting the cheat.
15295,"Those figures are so silent and furtive that one feels somehow confronted by forbidden things, with which it would be better to have nothing to do."
15296,"It was a faith of which other Esquimaux knew little, and which they mentioned only with shudders, saying that it had come down from horribly ancient aeons before ever the world was made."
15297,Pisando la tierra dura de continuo el hombre esta y cada passo que da es sobre su sepultura.
15298,"With the wind that now drove us on, we were bound for the whirl of the Ström, and nothing could save us ""You perceive that in crossing the Ström channel, we always went a long way up above the whirl, even in the calmest weather, and then had to wait and watch carefully for the slack but now we were driving right upon the pool itself, and in such a hurricane as this 'To be sure,' I thought, 'we shall get there just about the slack there is some little hope in that' but in the next moment I cursed myself for being so great a fool as to dream of hope at all."
15299,"must I say precisely?"""
15300,"When the Automaton hesitates in relation to its move, the exhibiter is occasionally seen to place himself very near its right side, and to lay his hand, now and then, in a careless manner upon the box."
15301,"First, he would look in on Evadne; he would not stay; but he owed her some account, some compensation for his long and unannounced absence; and then to Perdita, to the forgotten world, to the duties of society, the splendour of rank, the enjoyment of power."
15302,"His manner, timid at first, became firm his changeful face was lit up to superhuman brilliancy; his voice, various as music, was like that enchanting."
15303,What I heard in my youth about the shunned house was merely that people died there in alarmingly great numbers.
15304,"Observing that I remained without motion, one or two of the boldest leaped upon the frame work, and smelt at the surcingle."
15305,"I remember seizing my revolver and hat, but before it was over I had lost them both without firing the one or donning the other."
15306,"""For some weeks I led a miserable life in the woods, endeavouring to cure the wound which I had received."
15307,"Yet you do love me; I feel and know that you do, and thence I draw my most cherished hopes."
15308,"I have never yet been able to account, in a manner satisfactory to my own understanding, for the very peculiar countenance and demeanor with which Mr. Crab listened to me, as I unfolded to him my design."
15309,"The screaming twilight abysses flashed before him, and he felt himself helpless in the formless grasp of the iridescent bubble congeries."
15310,"I liked it there, for the doctors were broad minded, and even lent me their influence in obtaining the carefully sheltered copy of Alhazred's objectionable Necronomicon from the library of Miskatonic University."
15311,"September nd My beloved Sister, I write to you, encompassed by peril and ignorant whether I am ever doomed to see again dear England and the dearer friends that inhabit it."
15312,I reflected that many difficulties might still lie in the path of my preservation which only extreme exertion on my part would be able to surmount.
15313,"These I had tested with a fellow student; but achieving no result, had soon packed them away with other scientific odds and ends for possible future use."
15314,From each room to every other there were sure to be found three or four steps either in ascent or descent.
15315,"Upon his person was found a letter, briefly stating his love for Marie, with his design of self destruction."
15316,"God, that hand The window The window When the last days were upon me, and the ugly trifles of existence began to drive me to madness like the small drops of water that torturers let fall ceaselessly upon one spot of their victim's body, I loved the irradiate refuge of sleep."
15317,But before I could investigate there came a third impression which because of its irrationality caused me to doubt the objectivity of anything my senses might record.
15318,But it is by no means a really natural arrangement.
15319,"Her presence, her readings alone, rendered vividly luminous the many mysteries of the transcendentalism in which we were immersed."
15320,"Their creeds were heterodox and mysterious, involving hints of certain marvellous transformations leading to bodily immortality of a sort on this earth."
15321,"I concealed from this beloved child that her mother's death was voluntary, and tried every means to awaken cheerfulness in her sorrow stricken spirit."
15322,"A little reflection upon this discovery sufficed to render evident the consequences, which were that rascality must predominate in a word, that a republican government could never be any thing but a rascally one."
15323,"This man is about the medium size, and has a remarkable stoop in the shoulders."
15324,"He was ready, I think, to see proof of his increasingly strong opinion that consciousness, reason, and personality can exist independently of the brain that man has no central connective spirit, but is merely a machine of nervous matter, each section more or less complete in itself."
15325,"He stopped in his tracks then, flailing his arms wildly in the air, began to stagger backward."
15326,"He found Old Whateley in a very grave state, with a cardiac action and stertorous breathing that told of an end not far off."
15327,My nose is sufficiently good.
15328,"Now even granting what should not be granted that the movements of the Automaton Chess Player were in themselves determinate, they would be necessarily interrupted and disarranged by the indeterminate will of his antagonist."
15329,It would have been better if we could have known it was underground.
15330,"No word, no expression could body forth the kind of relation in which she stood to me my more than sister, since till death she was to be mine only."
15331,"But these fluctuations shook to its depths the soul of the sensitive youth; he no longer deemed the world subject to him, because he possessed Evadne's love; he felt in every nerve that the dire storms of the mental universe were about to attack his fragile being, which quivered at the expectation of its advent."
15332,"I had the good fortune to recollect that in the accentuation of this drama, or at least of such portion of it as is allotted to the hero, the tones of voice in which I found myself deficient were altogether unnecessary, and the deep guttural was expected to reign monotonously throughout."
15333,"Mr. Kirwin, on hearing this evidence, desired that I should be taken into the room where the body lay for interment, that it might be observed what effect the sight of it would produce upon me."
15334,"I could no longer bear the touch of her wan fingers, nor the low tone of her musical language, nor the lustre of her melancholy eyes."
15335,"But winter was coming, and with winter, hope."
15336,"But now that virtue has become to me a shadow, and that happiness and affection are turned into bitter and loathing despair, in what should I seek for sympathy?"
15337,"Not a living thing did I see, except for the scattered fishermen on the distant breakwater, and not a sound did I hear save the lapping of the harbour tides and the roar of the falls in the Manuxet."
15338,"""We have strange news here,"" I observed."
15339,I felt that I breathed an atmosphere of sorrow.
15340,"I have learnt in Greece that one man, more or less, is of small import, while human bodies remain to fill up the thinned ranks of the soldiery; and that the identity of an individual may be overlooked, so that the muster roll contain its full numbers."
15341,"As this state of wretchedness became more confirmed, and, in spite of her endeavours at concealment more apparent, I strove, though vainly, to awaken in her courage and hope."
15342,"""Even so,"" he cried, ""I knew you would speak of her."
15343,"The putting the key in the lock of the back door was a signal on hearing which the person concealed brought his body forward to an angle as acute as possible throwing it altogether, or nearly so, into the main compartment."
15344,"Not being able to arrive at a conclusion, the practitioners remanded me for farther examination."
15345,"Certain data being given, certain results necessarily and inevitably follow."
15346,"In the meantime, the force of gravitation would be constantly diminishing, in proportion to the squares of the distances, and thus, with a velocity prodigiously accelerating, I should at length arrive in those distant regions where the force of the earth's attraction would be superseded by that of the moon."
15347,"All my joy turned to sorrow when I first beheld him with that melancholy countenance enter these doors as it were the day after my lady's funeral He seemed to recover himself a little after he had bidden me write to you but still it is a woful thing to see him so unhappy."""
15348,A servant is sent to make inquiry about the delay.
15349,"I pursued him, and for many months this has been my task."
15350,"It is you they will get, as they got the servants."
15351,"There, where morbidity lurked most thickly, I searched and poked during long afternoons when the sunlight filtered in through the cobwebbed above ground windows, and a sense of security glowed from the unlocked door which placed me only a few feet from the placid sidewalk outside."
15352,"Evadne's constancy, fortitude, even her ill fated and ill regulated love, were matter of admiration and pity; especially when, from the detail of the events of the nineteenth of October, it was apparent that she preferred suffering and death to any in her eyes degrading application for the pity and assistance of her lover."
15353,They would have it that Coleridge wrote the paper but not so.
15354,Accordingly we find that Maelzel closes the back door.
15355,"I bent to them my ear and distinguished, again, the concluding words of the passage in Glanvill ""Man doth not yield him to the angels, nor unto death utterly, save only through the weakness of his feeble will."""
15356,"Love had doubled all her excellencies, and placed a diadem on her genius."
15357,"And then had come the scourge, grinning and lethal, from the nightmare caverns of Tartarus."
15358,"When passing over an expanse of water, it becomes necessary to employ small kegs of copper or wood, filled with liquid ballast of a lighter nature than water."
15359,Is a native of Spain.
15360,"Found the ascending force greater than we had expected; and as we arose higher and so got clear of the cliffs, and more in the sun's rays, our ascent became very rapid."
15361,"The chief in point of splendor and extent was the ""Château Metzengerstein."""
15362,"A poet, having very unusual pecuniary resources, might, while retaining the necessary idea of art or culture, or, as our author expresses it, of interest, so imbue his designs at once with extent and novelty of beauty, as to convey the sentiment of spiritual interference."
15363,It surprised me that what before was desert and gloomy should now bloom with the most beautiful flowers and verdure.
15364,"At length the negro asked, ""Is de lef eye of de skull pon de same side as de lef hand of de skull, too? cause de skull aint got not a bit ob a hand at all nebber mind I got de lef eye now here de lef eye what mus do wid it?"""
15365,"He who has never swooned, is not he who finds strange palaces and wildly familiar faces in coals that glow; is not he who beholds floating in mid air the sad visions that the many may not view; is not he who ponders over the perfume of some novel flower is not he whose brain grows bewildered with the meaning of some musical cadence which has never before arrested his attention."
15366,"I resolved, therefore, that if my immediate union with my cousin would conduce either to hers or my father's happiness, my adversary's designs against my life should not retard it a single hour."
15367,"Arm holes had been cut in the sides, for the sake not more of elegance than of convenience; but the dress, nevertheless, prevented its proprietor from sitting as erect as his associates; and as he lay reclining against his tressel, at an angle of forty five degrees, a pair of huge goggle eyes rolled up their awful whites towards the ceiling in absolute amazement at their own enormity."
15368,Tonight I go as a Nemesis bearing just and blazingly cataclysmic vengeance.
15369,It should be a matter of general knowledge that Cf. is responsible for this work.
15370,"The genius of the stanzas to the ""Oil of Bob"" first breathed into me, I say, the divine afflatus."
15371,The apparition was soon explained.
15372,"The month of May had already commenced, and I expected the letter daily which was to fix the date of my departure, when Henry proposed a pedestrian tour in the environs of Ingolstadt, that I might bid a personal farewell to the country I had so long inhabited."
15373,"The cycles in which the stars move are those best adapted for the evolution, without collision, of the greatest possible number of bodies."
15374,Sorrow fled before her; and her smile seemed to possess an influence like light to irradiate all mental darkness.
15375,"That was the first time he had ever been able to revive the quality of rational thought in a corpse; and his success, obtained at such a loathsome cost, had completely hardened him."
15376,"The children and the womenfolk whimpered, kept from screaming by some obscure, vestigial instinct of defence which told them their lives depended on silence."
15377,"""I wish you to bear especially in mind that I have spoken of a very unusual degree of activity as requisite to success in so hazardous and so difficult a feat."
15378,"Mr. Ricci and Mr. Silva were to interview the poor old gentleman, whilst Mr. Czanek waited for them and their presumable metallic burden with a covered motor car in Ship Street, by the gate in the tall rear wall of their host's grounds."
15379,"The shingles were painted a dull gray; and the happiness with which this neutral tint melted into the vivid green of the tulip tree leaves that partially overshadowed the cottage, can readily be conceived by an artist."
15380,"Upon neither of these points could I be satisfied; merely ascertaining, in regard to him, that a sudden accident in his family had caused his removal from Dr. Bransby's academy on the afternoon of the day in which I myself had eloped."
15381,"It was, especially, upon retiring to bed late in the night of the seventh or eighth day after the placing of the lady Madeline within the donjon, that I experienced the full power of such feelings."
15382,"The knot by which the strings of the bonnet were fastened, was not a lady's, but a slip or sailor's knot."
15383,"There was no sound within save a nameless sort of slow, thick dripping."
15384,"I would sometimes rise very quietly in the night, stealing out to walk in those churchyards and places of burial from which I had been kept by my parents."
15385,What I have become since this last moment I know not; perhaps I am changed in mien as the fallen archangel.
15386,"Also, I must not dwell on what that factory inspector had told the Newburyport ticket agent about the Gilman House and the voices of its nocturnal tenants not on that, nor on the face beneath the tiara in the black church doorway; the face for whose horror my conscious mind could not account."
15387,"It moved slowly, but it enlightened my path, and I again went out in search of berries."
15388,Yet this was very unlike my early life although as then I was confined to Nature and books.
15389,With opinions such as these was my young friend fully imbued; and thus is it especially worthy of observation that the uninterrupted enjoyment which distinguished his life was in great part the result of preconcert.
15390,We took our passage on board a vessel bound for Havre de Grace and sailed with a fair wind from the Irish shores.
15391,"A sordid, undefinable stench settled over the place, and the ancient spirit slept."
15392,"Then came a halt in the gasping, and the dog raised its head in a long, lugubrious howl."
15393,It was the opinion of both physicians that M. Valdemar would die about midnight on the morrow Sunday.
15394,"""You cherish dreary thoughts, my dear Perdita,"" I said, ""nor do I wonder that for a time your better reason should be influenced by passionate grief and a disturbed imagination."
15395,"Thus you may console me by reducing me to nothing but your words I cannot bear; soon they will make me mad, quite mad, and then I shall utter strange words, and you will believe them, and we shall be both lost for ever."
15396,"His abdication of the Protectorate had caused an unexampled sensation; and, when his magnificent and manly system was contrasted with the narrow views of succeeding politicians, the period of his elevation was referred to with sorrow."
15397,"I record no crimes; my faults may easily be pardoned; for they proceeded not from evil motive but from want of judgement; and I believe few would say that they could, by a different conduct and superior wisdom, have avoided the misfortunes to which I am the victim."
15398,"What slave will not, if he may, escape from his chains?"
15399,"I felt as if, from the order of the systematic world, I had plunged into chaos, obscure, contrary, unintelligible."
15400,"""Save me"" she exclaimed, and would have sunk to the ground had I not supported her."
15401,"Let us carefully compare with each other the various communications sent to the evening paper, in which the object was to inculpate a gang."
15402,"His companionship with the deceased, a gay, but not an abject young girl, designates him as above the grade of the common sailor."
15403,Even in my own heart I could give no expression to my sensations they weighed on me with a mountain's weight and their excess destroyed my agony beneath them.
15404,"Shalmanezer, as we have it in holy writings, lay three years before Samaria; yet it fell."
15405,"Rushing to the building, it perceived the lightning rod, clambered up with inconceivable agility, grasped the shutter, which was thrown fully back against the wall, and, by its means, swung itself directly upon the headboard of the bed."
15406,"I did not undress, but decided to read till I was sleepy and then lie down with only my coat, collar, and shoes off."
15407,"One man with Oriental eyes has said that all time and space are relative, and men have laughed."
15408,The police are entirely at fault an unusual occurrence in affairs of this nature.
15409,Gate o' hell sheer drop daown to a bottom no saoundin' line kin tech.
15410,"All cold, and stiff, and dead Alas I am quite callous: the night I was out in was fearful and the cold rain that fell about my heart has acted like the waters of the cavern of Antiparos and has changed it to stone."
15411,"It was echoed from Saleve, the Juras, and the Alps of Savoy; vivid flashes of lightning dazzled my eyes, illuminating the lake, making it appear like a vast sheet of fire; then for an instant every thing seemed of a pitchy darkness, until the eye recovered itself from the preceding flash."
15412,"what do you mean?"" ""Why, massa, I mean de bug dare now."""
15413,"He was always the saddest of the group, and even to my unpractised senses, he appeared to have suffered more deeply than his friends."
15414,It was the work of the rushing gust but then without those doors there did stand the lofty and enshrouded figure of the lady Madeline of Usher.
15415,"She appeared affected by different feelings; wiping a few tears from her lovely eyes, she held out her hand to Felix, who kissed it rapturously and called her, as well as I could distinguish, his sweet Arabian."
15416,I had expected more resolution at his hands.
15417,"It was not strange therefore, that when he heard of the existence of the offspring of this celebrated person, he should have formed the plan of bestowing on them all the advantages his rank made him rich to afford."
15418,"But, as the loss of his ears proved the means of elevating to the throne of Cyrus, the Magian or Mige Gush of Persia, and as the cutting off his nose gave Zopyrus possession of Babylon, so the loss of a few ounces of my countenance proved the salvation of my body."
15419,"On examination, we found that all the leaves, bark, and other substances, were traced with written characters."
15420,"Although in his appearance there is, to a casual observer, nothing which might bespeak him more or less than man still a feeling of irrepressible reverence and awe mingled with the sensation of wonder with which I regarded him."
15421,"Well, Eliot, that was the end of the night's adventure."
15422,"Made sign talk as soon as they got over bein' skeert, an' pieced up a bargain afore long."
15423,"Our misfortune is doubly hard to us; we have not only lost that lovely darling boy, but this poor girl, whom I sincerely love, is to be torn away by even a worse fate."
15424,"And every night, about midnight, I turned the latch of his door and opened it oh so gently And then, when I had made an opening sufficient for my head, I put in a dark lantern, all closed, closed, that no light shone out, and then I thrust in my head."
15425,"It had not seen me, but was simply obeying a general plan of cutting off my escape."
15426,"Often I waited beside the bed of death till midnight, and through the obscurity of rainy, cloudy nights rode many miles, sustained by one circumstance only, the safety and sheltered repose of those I loved."
15427,"You must have had occasion to observe how absolutely indispensable, of late years, to the thorough blackguard, has become the pocket handkerchief."""
15428,"A remembrance of the discourses of my parents, and the communications which my mother endeavoured to impress upon me concerning my father's friends, in slight hope that I might one day derive benefit from the knowledge, floated like an indistinct dream through my brain."
15429,"This circumstance, however, only endeared it to my wife, who, as I have already said, possessed, in a high degree, that humanity of feeling which had once been my distinguishing trait, and the source of many of my simplest and purest pleasures."
15430,"During the busy day, my mind had yielded itself a willing slave to the state of things presented to it by its fellow beings; historical association, hatred of the foe, and military enthusiasm had held dominion over me."
15431,"Yes: the king is coming See the people are aghast with admiration, and lift up their eyes to the heavens in reverence."
15432,"But in the western or black chamber the effect of the fire light that streamed upon the dark hangings through the blood tinted panes, was ghastly in the extreme, and produced so wild a look upon the countenances of those who entered, that there were few of the company bold enough to set foot within its precincts at all."
15433,"In the most enchanting of natural landscapes, there will always be found a defect or an excess many excesses and defects."
15434,"A fearful idea now suddenly drove the blood in torrents upon my heart, and for a brief period, I once more relapsed into insensibility."
15435,"You perceive, however, that he is neither a lamb, nor a goat, nor a satyr, neither has he much resemblance to the Pan of the Arcadians."
15436,"A small spring of water presented itself to my view, and here, stooping, I bathed my hands and my head and neck."
15437,"""You have got up all your arguments in excellent order,"" I replied; ""and, if Adrian consent, they are unanswerable."
15438,"For an instant I felt absolute despair, since my trapping in a chamber with no window egress seemed complete."
15439,Flashes of lightning were visible through the bunk house window.
15440,"Idris stood beside me, her dear hand locked in mine."
15441,"I saw nothing in it of an extraordinary character, but its effect upon Bedloe was prodigious."
15442,"He gave not only a brief denial to his mother's schemes, but published his intention of using his influence to diminish the power of the aristocracy, to effect a greater equalization of wealth and privilege, and to introduce a perfect system of republican government into England."
15443,"Once Idris named me casually a frown, a convulsive gesture of anger, shook her mother, and, with voice trembling with hate, she said ""I am of little worth in this world; the young are impatient to push the old off the scene; but, Idris, if you do not wish to see your mother expire at your feet, never again name that person to me; all else I can bear; and now I am resigned to the destruction of my cherished hopes: but it is too much to require that I should love the instrument that providence gifted with murderous properties for my destruction."""
15444,"Her timidity was not artificial, but arose from that fear of not being properly appreciated, that slight estimation of the neglect of the world, which also characterized Raymond."
15445,I asked her where he should be buried.
15446,"""There is much truth in what you say,"" said I, ""and yet no man ever acts upon this theory."
15447,Nothing should tempt me to part with that scarabæus.
15448,"And above the nighted screaming of men and horses that dæmonic drumming rose to louder pitch, whilst an ice cold wind of shocking sentience and deliberateness swept down from those forbidden heights and coiled about each man separately, till all the cohort was struggling and screaming in the dark, as if acting out the fate of Laocoön and his sons."
15449,But at length reflection came to my aid.
15450,"My glance fell from the painting to the figure of my friend, and the vigorous words of Chapman's Bussy D'Ambois, quivered instinctively upon my lips: ""He is up There like a Roman statue He will stand Till Death hath made him marble"" ""Come,"" he said at length, turning towards a table of richly enamelled and massive silver, upon which were a few goblets fantastically stained, together with two large Etruscan vases, fashioned in the same extraordinary model as that in the foreground of the portrait, and filled with what I supposed to be Johannisberger."
15451,"Old Waldron, who had curtailed his activities before, would have made him take a rest an impossible thing now that he was so close to great results in his equations."
15452,"""Every minute,"" continued M. Krempe with warmth, ""every instant that you have wasted on those books is utterly and entirely lost."
15453,But are not the dreams of poets and the tales of travellers notoriously false?
15454,"Now, the mean or average interval between the centres of the two planets is . of the earth's equatorial radii, or only about , miles."
15455,It has a certain general relation to the various styles of building.
15456,"Watson, Dr. Percival, Spallanzani, and especially the Bishop of Landaff."
15457,"His countenance was rough but intelligent his ample brow and quick grey eyes seemed to look out, over his own plans, and the opposition of his enemies."
15458,"That, I s'pose, was because gov'munt draft men was in taown arter 'sixty three."
15459,"The sailor had recovered his presence of mind, in a great measure, while Dupin uttered these words; but his original boldness of bearing was all gone."
15460,"I threw myself at his feet, and took his hand, ""Yes, speak, and we shall be happy; there will no longer be doubt, no dreadful uncertainty; trust me, my affection will soothe your sorrow; speak that word and all danger will be past, and we shall love each other as before, and for ever."""
15461,This alone would have sufficed to produce death.
15462,"While I was thus wrapped in admiration of this lovely vision, a sudden disturbance among the audience caused her to turn her head partially toward me, so that I beheld the entire profile of the face."
15463,"The steel rod connecting the spring with the propeller was suddenly jerked out of place, at the car end, by a swaying of the car through some movement of one of the two seamen we had taken up, and in an instant hung dangling out of reach, from the pivot of the axis of the screw."
15464,"When I mingled with other families I distinctly discerned how peculiarly fortunate my lot was, and gratitude assisted the development of filial love."
15465,Is it possible that even my latest fear is sheer delusion?
15466,You will not dispute with me?
15467,"""There needs no persuasion,"" said the blushing Perdita, ""except your own dear promises, and my ready heart, which whispers to me that they are true."""
15468,You did look up; and I was now assured that I had correctly followed your steps.
15469,"Two titan swaths of destruction stretched from the glen to the Frye farmyard, monstrous prints covered the bare patches of ground, and one side of the old red barn had completely caved in."
15470,"I remained, while the storm lasted, watching its progress with curiosity and delight."
15471,"We were in time, however, to obtain the front seats which had been reserved for us, and into which, with some little difficulty, we elbowed our way."
15472,"In the end he give him a funny kind o' thingumajig made aout o' lead or something, that he said ud bring up the fish things from any place in the water whar they might be a nest of 'em."
15473,"He awaked on the morning of the nd with a pain in his left wrist, and saw that his cuff was brown with dried blood."
15474,"From the manner in which Slater alluded to their dealings, I judged that he and the luminous thing had met on equal terms; that in his dream existence the man was himself a luminous thing of the same race as his enemy."
15475,Thus far I have faithfully said.
15476,"Upon investigation it was seen that a new abyss yawned indefinitely below the seat of the blast; an abyss so monstrous that no handy line might fathom it, nor any lamp illuminate it."
15477,"In the cranium of this hideous thing lay quantity of ignited charcoal, which threw a fitful but vivid light over the entire scene; while coffins, and other wares appertaining to the shop of an undertaker, were piled high up around the room, and against the windows, preventing any ray from escaping into the street."
15478,"This time he resolved to reply in kind, and his own hands reached out for the creature's throat."
15479,"When a madman appears thoroughly sane, indeed, it is high time to put him in a straitjacket."""
15480,"""But this ascendancy,"" I interposed, ""would depend upon the robber's knowledge of the loser's knowledge of the robber."
15481,"This lady died, but her lessons were indelibly impressed on the mind of Safie, who sickened at the prospect of again returning to Asia and being immured within the walls of a harem, allowed only to occupy herself with infantile amusements, ill suited to the temper of her soul, now accustomed to grand ideas and a noble emulation for virtue."
15482,"His mother, apparently inattentive, at once understood what was meant, and seeing the hold we had upon her, yielded the point to us."
15483,"""By no means"" says the servant; and ""By no means"" says the lady's sister and the lady's sister in law, who are summoned forthwith."
15484,"M. Maelzel, having rolled the machine back into its original position, now informs the company that the Automaton will play a game of chess with any one disposed to encounter him."
15485,Of foam there was little except in the immediate vicinity of the rocks.
15486,"The house was readily found; for there were still many persons gazing up at the closed shutters, with an objectless curiosity, from the opposite side of the way."
15487,"Other traditions tell of foul odours near the hill crowning circles of stone pillars, and of rushing airy presences to be heard faintly at certain hours from stated points at the bottom of the great ravines; while still others try to explain the Devil's Hop Yard a bleak, blasted hillside where no tree, shrub, or grass blade will grow."
15488,"They were eyeing, from behind a huge flagon of unpaid for ""humming stuff,"" the portentous words, ""No Chalk,"" which to their indignation and astonishment were scored over the doorway by means of that very mineral whose presence they purported to deny."
15489,"The door to the west wing was in its gable, and quite simple a single window looked out to the south."
15490,"""Alberto Montani, confectioner, deposes that he was among the first to ascend the stairs."
15491,"On a verdant slope of Mount Maenalus, in Arcadia, there stands an olive grove about the ruins of a villa."
15492,"He pointed out the errors, and the alterations that he wished to be made; he offered the Greek a pencil that he might correct the sketch on the spot; this was refused by his visitor, who said that he perfectly understood, and would work at it at home."
15493,"At the bottom of that valley a river once had flowed; for as I examined the scene more closely I beheld the remains of stone and marble bridges and sea walls, and terraces and embankments once verdant and beautiful."
15494,"First, I must thank you, Lionel, for having remained here at my request."
15495,"His wife assured us, that he had not observed any difference, except in the absence of the children from his study, and to her infinite surprise he complained of this unaccustomed quiet."
15496,Of the first of these opinions we shall say nothing at present more than we have already said.
15497,"It is really a very fine amusement to ascend the rope ladder leading to the summit of the balloon bag, and thence survey the surrounding world."
15498,"Let us go the world is our country now, and we will choose for our residence its most fertile spot."
15499,"Was, indeed, Fate preserving my reason only to draw me irresistibly to an end more horrible and unthinkable than any man has dreamed of?"
15500,"But in truth, neither the lonely meditations of the hermit, nor the tumultuous raptures of the reveller, are capable of satisfying man's heart."
15501,"She was a singular being, and, like me, inherited much of the peculiar disposition of our father."
15502,"In an absolute phrenzy of wrath, I turned at once upon him who had thus interrupted me, and seized him violently by the collar."
15503,"It was rather ironic, for he was the officer who had helped West to his commission, and who was now to have been our associate."
15504,"Still, however, he came not."
15505,"A visiter at his office, a few days prior to the girl's disappearance, and during the absence of its occupant, had observed a rose in the key hole of the door, and the name ""Marie"" inscribed upon a slate which hung near at hand."
15506,But it is unworthy of me to argue and complain.
15507,What ensued can best be gathered from the tales of servants and from things and papers later examined.
15508,"All he could do was moan half inaudibly, ""Oh, oh, great Gawd . . ."
15509,Tragedies deep and dire were the chief favourites.
15510,"Raymond expressed himself delighted to see him, declaring that he should make one in the festivity of the night."
15511,"To be sure, whenever we meet a balloon we have a chance of perceiving our rate, and then, I admit, things do not appear so very bad."
15512,"There were insane shouts and harrowing screams, soul chilling chants and dancing devil flames; and, the frightened messenger added, the people could stand it no more."
15513,"A restlessness, a fear of what was about to betide, a doubt as to Raymond's purposes, urged me to return without delay to his quarters."
15514,"It was this that led me here: I thought that if I could again awaken in my heart the grief I had felt at the loss of your mother, and the many associations with her memory which had been laid to sleep for seventeen years, that all love for her child would become extinct."
15515,"I had seen it from the road's crest when I looked at Kingsport in the new dusk, and it had made me shiver because Aldebaran had seemed to balance itself a moment on the ghostly spire."
15516,You are going to make enquiries concerning the Earl of Windsor.
15517,"Elwood was in, thank heaven, and appeared to be stirring about."
15518,I leaned to the left.
15519,"I now observed that I had with me an electric lantern and two spades, whilst my companion was supplied with a similar lantern and a portable telephone outfit."
15520,"I have described my protracted digging as idiotic, and such it indeed was in object and method."
15521,Man could not both know and succumb.
15522,"Pray let us try again."""
15523,Nor was I indeed ignorant of the flowers and the vine but the hemlock and the cypress overshadowed me night and day.
15524,"Chapter ""I now hasten to the more moving part of my story."
15525,"The right arm of the man within is brought across his breast, and his right fingers act, without any constraint, upon the machinery in the shoulder of the figure."
15526,It was midnight; and you still sat by my side.
15527,"Do not then continue to fix your eyes on the earth; raise them on me for I can read your soul in them: speak to me to me sic, and pardon my presumption."
15528,Alas To me the idea of an immediate union with my Elizabeth was one of horror and dismay.
15529,"Never should he behold her fallen, as she deemed, from her pride of beauty, the poverty stricken inhabitant of a garret, with a name which had become a reproach, and a weight of guilt on her soul."
15530,"He was far too long sighted in his view of humanity to heed the casualties of the day, and lived in the midst of contagion unconscious of its existence."
15531,"The truth is, I soon found that Mrs. W. was far oftener laughed at than with."
15532,"My wife had called my attention, more than once, to the character of the mark of white hair, of which I have spoken, and which constituted the sole visible difference between the strange beast and the one I had destroyed."
15533,Raymond then lamented the cureless evil of his situation with Perdita.
15534,"Presently he shook his head, looking as pale as death, and held up one of his fingers, as if to say 'listen ' ""At first I could not make out what he meant but soon a hideous thought flashed upon me."
15535,"In such a mind, I repeat, what a host of recollections are stirred up by a trifle The dogs danced I I could not They frisked I wept."
15536,"""Are you mad, my friend?"" said he. ""Or whither does your senseless curiosity lead you?"
15537,He had promised to spend some hours with me one afternoon but a violent and continual rain prevented him.
15538,"Scarcely had I crossed the sill when there descended upon the whole company a sudden and unheralded fear of hideous intensity, distorting every face and evoking the most horrible screams from nearly every throat."
15539,"I will therefore guess even;' he guesses even, and wins."
15540,"In about ten minutes after starting, the barometer indicated an altitude of , feet."
15541,"A tear seemed to dim her eye when she saw us, but she quickly recovered herself, and a look of sorrowful affection seemed to attest her utter guiltlessness."
15542,"So on the night of July , , Herbert West and I stood in the cellar laboratory and gazed at a white, silent figure beneath the dazzling arc light."
15543,In the daemon flash of a monstrous fireball the sleeper started up suddenly while the glare from beyond the window threw his shadow vividly upon the chimney above the fireplace from which my eyes had never strayed.
15544,Something had evidently drawn a crowd to this place.
15545,Who ordered your attack?
15546,"In days of happiness I have often repeated to myself, with a grateful heart and exulting spirit, all that Raymond sacrificed for me."
15547,I lay outstretched where I had fallen from the balloon.
15548,"""You have guessed right; I have lately been so deeply engaged in one occupation that I have not allowed myself sufficient rest, as you see; but I hope, I sincerely hope, that all these employments are now at an end and that I am at length free."""
15549,"The upper lip, at the same time, writhed itself away from the teeth, which it had previously covered completely; while the lower jaw fell with an audible jerk, leaving the mouth widely extended, and disclosing in full view the swollen and blackened tongue."
15550,"I knew what he wanted to see if this highly organised body could exhibit, without its head, any of the signs of mental life which had distinguished Sir Eric Moreland Clapham Lee."
15551,You may believe that I did not enter on my present line of conduct without reluctance and pain.
15552,"""Here, then, I retreated and lay down happy to have found a shelter, however miserable, from the inclemency of the season, and still more from the barbarity of man."
15553,"Presently they began to gather renewed force and coherence as they grew in stark, utter, ultimate frenzy."
15554,"Elizabeth saw even this last resource, her excellent dispositions and irreproachable conduct, about to fail the accused, when, although violently agitated, she desired permission to address the court."
15555,"Come, give me your hand, one look of joyous sympathy and we will go together and seek them; a lulling journey; where our arrival will bring bliss and our waking be that of angels."
15556,"One experiment succeeded another, and the customary effects supervened, with nothing to characterize them in any respect, except, upon one or two occasions, a more than ordinary degree of life likeness in the convulsive action."
15557,"The two sounds most frequently repeated are those rendered by the letters ""Cthulhu"" and ""R'lyeh""."
15558,Things are hunting me now the things that devour and dissolve but I know how to elude them.
15559,"Was again very much alarmed by a repetition of the loud, crackling noise which terrified me on the tenth."
15560,For example: very early in the morning I had to make up my packet of sham letters.
15561,Subsequent impressions will never leave the mind of young Trever.
15562,"What appeared to us more astonishing, was that these writings were expressed in various languages: some unknown to my companion, ancient Chaldee, and Egyptian hieroglyphics, old as the Pyramids."
15563,I found Adrian's anti chamber crowded it was his hour for giving audience.
15564,"Towards the end of October it dwindled away, and was in some degree replaced by a typhus, of hardly less virulence."
15565,It grew fast and big from the same reason that Wilbur grew fast and big but it beat him because it had a greater share of the outsideness in it.
15566,He was remarkable in the entire and continuous profusion of good gifts ever lavished upon him by fortune.
15567,"I had left no shadow of a clew by which it would be possible to convict, or even to suspect me of the crime."
15568,The shadows of things assumed strange and ghastly shapes.
15569,"The rich although faded tapestry hangings which swung gloomily upon the walls, represented the shadowy and majestic forms of a thousand illustrious ancestors."
15570,"At first it was the great object of my ambition to rival the merits of my father, and render myself worthy of the friendship of Adrian."
15571,"That is, never no full blooded one."
15572,"It wanted five minutes of noon, on the day before yesterday, when there appeared a very odd looking object on the summit of the ridge of the eastward."
15573,After much hesitation.
15574,"He had refused a stimulant, and had suddenly dropped dead only a moment later."
15575,"It was of a jetty black; which was also the color, or more properly the no color of his unimaginable whiskers."
15576,"My ancestors had been for many years counsellors and syndics, and my father had filled several public situations with honour and reputation."
15577,And I beg of you to let that thing on the table the thing that looks like a match box alone.
15578,"He couldn't stand what he had to do he had to get me in a strange, dark place when he minded my letter and nursed me back."
15579,"I told them exceedingly few deaths had yet been occasioned by pestilence, and gave them hopes, as we were the last visited, so the calamity might have lost its most venomous power before it had reached us."
15580,"The shunned house, it seems, was first inhabited by William Harris and his wife Rhoby Dexter, with their children, Elkanah, born in , Abigail, born in , William, Jr., born in , and Ruth, born in ."
15581,"But these garters are found to be tightened, by the setting back of a clasp, in just such a manner as her own had been tightened by Marie, shortly previous to her leaving home."
15582,For this I had deprived myself of rest and health.
15583,"Several days elapsed, and at last an answer came, dated from Cologne."
15584,"I fairly shouted with terror, and made off, at a tangent, into the farthest extremity of the room."
15585,"The sight of this form, and the expression on its face, broke the spell."
15586,"About an hour ago, I made bold to thrust myself among a group of the crew."
15587,"There was a pandemonium of questioning, and only Henry Wheeler thought to rescue the fallen telescope and wipe it clean of mud."
15588,"""Mos feerd for to ventur pon dis limb berry far tis dead limb putty much all de way."" ""Did you say it was a dead limb, Jupiter?"" cried Legrand in a quavering voice."
15589,"The cold is excessive, and many of my unfortunate comrades have already found a grave amidst this scene of desolation."
15590,"It is your duty as a magistrate, and I believe and hope that your feelings as a man will not revolt from the execution of those functions on this occasion."""
15591,"For several hours I sat thinking or brooding in the boat, which lay upon its side and afforded a slight shade as the sun moved across the heavens."
15592,"It was of this world, and yet not of it a shadowy geometrical confusion in which could be seen elements of familiar things in most unfamiliar and perturbing combinations."
15593,At a.m. the next day I commenced digging.
15594,"What with this an' that, he didn't git to sleep at all till sunup, an' no sooner was he up this mornin', but he's got to go over to Whateley's an' see what's the matter."
15595,"He foresaw that he should leave this cheerful earth, the lightsome sky, and thy love, Perdita; yet he neither hesitated or turned back, going right onward to his mark of fame."
15596,"She thought her the model of all excellence and endeavoured to imitate her phraseology and manners, so that even now she often reminds me of her."
15597,"""It was morning when I awoke, and my first care was to visit the fire."
15598,"The phrases ""I am out of breath,"" ""I have lost my breath,"" etc., are often enough repeated in common conversation; but it had never occurred to me that the terrible accident of which I speak could bona fide and actually happen Imagine that is if you have a fanciful turn imagine, I say, my wonder my consternation my despair There is a good genius, however, which has never entirely deserted me."
15599,"It's a very simple thing, indeed."
15600,"We approached with all the speed six rowers could give; the orderly and picturesque dress of the soldiers on the beach, the sounds of exulting music, the stirring breeze and waving flags, the unchecked exclamations of the eager crowd, whose dark looks and foreign garb were purely eastern; the sight of temple crowned rock, the white marble of the buildings glittering in the sun, and standing in bright relief against the dark ridge of lofty mountains beyond; the near roar of the sea, the splash of oars, and dash of spray, all steeped my soul in a delirium, unfelt, unimagined in the common course of common life."
15601,"But always I shall guard against the mocking and insatiate Hypnos, lord of sleep, against the night sky, and against the mad ambitions of knowledge and philosophy."
15602,"Then he began once more the writing of books, which he had left off when dreams first failed him."
15603,"All that now remained was to fasten up the mouth of the enclosure; and this was readily accomplished by gathering the folds of the material together, and twisting them up very tightly on the inside by means of a kind of stationary tourniquet."
15604,"With it shall go this record of mine this test of my own sanity, wherein is pieced together that which I hope may never be pieced together again."
15605,"The moon itself was directly overhead, and consequently hidden from my view."
15606,Who deserved the hand of this self exalted king more than she whose glance belonged to a queen of nations?
15607,"Reluctant even to be left alone again, each one of the cowed squatters refused point blank to advance another inch toward the scene of unholy worship, so Inspector Legrasse and his nineteen colleagues plunged on unguided into black arcades of horror that none of them had ever trod before."
15608,"Many are chosen, as you see, with little deference to the opinions of Virtu."
15609,"In the opinion of M. Dumas, Mademoiselle L'Espanaye had been throttled to death by some person or persons unknown."
15610,"A slight headache, accompanied with a sensation of fulness or distention about the wrists, the ankles, and the throat, was nearly all of which I had now to complain."
15611,"But a bitter thought swiftly shadowed her joy; she bent her eyes on the ground, endeavouring to master the passion of tears that threatened to overwhelm her."
15612,It was at nine o'clock in the morning.
15613,"I cannot guess how many days have passed since then, but I have endured misery which nothing but the eternal sentiment of a just retribution burning within my heart could have enabled me to support."
15614,"Do you observe how mere an accident it was that these events should have occurred upon the sole day of all the year in which it has been, or may be, sufficiently cool for fire, and that without the fire, or without the intervention of the dog at the precise moment in which he appeared, I should never have become aware of the death's head, and so never the possessor of the treasure?"""
15615,"My coming to New York had been a mistake; for whereas I had looked for poignant wonder and inspiration in the teeming labyrinths of ancient streets that twist endlessly from forgotten courts and squares and waterfronts to courts and squares and waterfronts equally forgotten, and in the Cyclopean modern towers and pinnacles that rise blackly Babylonian under waning moons, I had found instead only a sense of horror and oppression which threatened to master, paralyse, and annihilate me."
15616,"There, at some obscure wharf, he would have leaped on land."
15617,"""A death's head"" echoed Legrand ""Oh yes well, it has something of that appearance upon paper, no doubt."
15618,Let us get into a place of safety as soon as possible.
15619,"I was lying with my back to the east window overlooking the bog, where the waning moon would rise, and therefore expected to see light cast on the opposite wall before me; but I had not looked for such a sight as now appeared."
15620,I walked the cellar from end to end.
15621,I observed now that even the lightest vapors never rose to more than ten miles above the level of the sea.
15622,"He at no time fully described this object, but occasional frantic words, as repeated by Dr. Tobey, convinced the professor that it must be identical with the nameless monstrosity he had sought to depict in his dream sculpture."
15623,"From a loop hole near the summit of the kiosk, I perceived a vast crowd, in furious agitation, surrounding and assaulting a gay palace that overhung the river."
15624,What this design was it is not difficult to conceive.
15625,I took vigorous exercise.
15626,"""That's why I wouldn't go at night if I was you."
15627,"Legal evidence was lacking, but the story spread rapidly round the countryside; and from that time the Martenses were ostracised by the world."
15628,Yet the sound increased and what could I do?
15629,"They planted the cannon on the tumuli, sole elevations in this level country, and formed themselves into column and hollow square; while the pioneers threw up small mounds for their protection."
15630,"One day, while I was gradually recovering, I was seated in a chair, my eyes half open and my cheeks livid like those in death."
15631,"It would not let me sleep, and in impatience I sprang up and paced the floor."
15632,"It would have been wiser, it would have been safer, to classify if classify we must upon the basis of what man usually or occasionally did, and was always occasionally doing, rather than upon the basis of what we took it for granted the Deity intended him to do."
15633,"That night I encamped, and on the following day still travelled toward the hummock, though that object seemed scarcely nearer than when I had first espied it."
15634,"They had separate apartments no doubt in contemplation of a more permanent divorce; and here, after all I thought was the mystery of the extra state room."
15635,She framed her enquiries with Greek subtlety; she formed her conclusions with the decision and firmness peculiar to her disposition.
15636,"From within the city neither shout nor cry, nor aught except the casual howling of a dog, broke the noon day stillness."
15637,"Yes tears are gathering in those eyes and see the entire woman thrills throughout the soul, and the statue has started into life The pallor of the marble countenance, the swelling of the marble bosom, the very purity of the marble feet, we behold suddenly flushed over with a tide of ungovernable crimson; and a slight shudder quivers about her delicate frame, as a gentle air at Napoli about the rich silver lilies in the grass."
15638,"""Amontillado"" ""And I must satisfy them."""
15639,"I would, of course, soon have to shift from Washington to some other southward street; for that party from the hotel would doubtless be after me."
15640,"By degrees, after the morning's dawn, sleep came."
15641,"I put my hand before my eyes, and cried out in agony, ""Oh Take him away I cannot see him; for God's sake, do not let him enter"" Mr. Kirwin regarded me with a troubled countenance."
15642,"He pointed to the tillers of the earth the only people who, as a class, are proverbially more happy than others and then he instanced the high ecstasies of the fox hunter."
15643,"Having made up my mind to hope no more, I got rid of a great deal of that terror which unmanned me at first."
15644,"We also measured the thickness of every book cover, with the most accurate admeasurement, and applied to each the most jealous scrutiny of the microscope."
15645,"It means that a great hero, in the heat of combat, not perceiving that he had been fairly killed, continued to fight valiantly, dead as he was."
15646,"But while my lids remained thus shut, I ran over in my mind my reason for so shutting them."
15647,"The steep street of my approach was nowhere visible, and the little I did see succumbed rapidly to a mist that rolled in from the river despite the glaring moonlight."
15648,"""Exactly so,"" replied Raymond, ""another link of the breakless chain."
15649,"In a short period it was certain, however, that a relapse had taken place; the color disappeared from both eyelid and cheek, leaving a wanness even more than that of marble; the lips became doubly shrivelled and pinched up in the ghastly expression of death; a repulsive clamminess and coldness overspread rapidly the surface of the body; and all the usual rigorous illness immediately supervened."
15650,"Somebody had accosted him in the street, mistaking him for no less a personage than Doctor Dubble L. Dee, the lecturer upon quack physics."
15651,I have longed for a friend; I have sought one who would sympathize with and love me.
15652,"They were by no means uncivilized, however, but cultivated various arts and even sciences after a fashion of their own."
15653,"Raymond adduced many arguments and fervent persuasions to overcome her feeling, but she remained unconvinced; and, agitated by the discussion, she wildly and passionately made a solemn vow, to fly and hide herself where he never could discover her, where famine would soon bring death to conclude her woes, if he persisted in his to her disgracing offers."
15654,"So Iranon went out of the stable and walked over the narrow stone streets between the gloomy square houses of granite, seeking something green in the air of spring."
15655,"He was a little, pursy, pompous, passionate semicircular somebody, with a red nose, a thick scull, sic a long purse, and a strong sense of his own consequence."
15656,"A sensation of stupor oppressed me, as my eyes followed her retreating steps."
15657,"Mr. Garrick obtain'd Admittance only with Difficulty; for the Doctor, notwithstanding his great Friendship, was for ever affecting to decry the Stage and all Things connected with it."
15658,"In those days how often did I hear of his attractions, his wide spread conquests, his wit, his refined manners."
15659,"Upon passing the hand over them they seemed to have protruded from their sockets in no inconsiderable degree; and all objects in the car, and even the balloon itself, appeared distorted to my vision."
15660,"The duties, here, are simple, and not altogether unprofitable."
15661,"Le Don was instantly released, upon our narration of the circumstances with some comments from Dupin at the bureau of the Prefect of Police."
15662,"In the very next published number I had the proud satisfaction of seeing my poem printed at length, as the leading article, with the following significant words, prefixed in italics and between brackets: We call the attention of our readers to the subjoined admirable stanza on ""The Oil of Bob."""
15663,It was not until the expiration of a week that it was deemed necessary to offer a reward; and even then this reward was limited to a thousand francs.
15664,"In whatever way the shifting is managed, it is of course concealed at every step from observation."
15665,"In the darkness every faint noise of the night seemed magnified, and a flood of doubly unpleasant thoughts swept over me."
15666,"Amount entered in Journal fifty cents which see. ""Feb. ."
15667,"When they had thinned out enough to be glimpsed as separate organisms, I saw that they were dwarfed, deformed hairy devils or apes monstrous and diabolic caricatures of the monkey tribe."
15668,It is all in that ancestral diary I found; all the hushed innuendoes and furtive tales of things with a blemished eye seen at windows in the night or in deserted meadows near the woods.
15669,"I have keys, as you know, with which I can open any chamber or cabinet in Paris."
15670,"This pamphlet was not designed for the public eye, even upon the decease of the writer, as any person at all conversant with authorship may satisfy himself at once by the slightest inspection of the style."
15671,At length it forced it wrestled its way into my soul it burned itself in upon my shuddering reason.
15672,"Was I, then, a monster, a blot upon the earth, from which all men fled and whom all men disowned?"
15673,"The growing shadow rose and rose, filling, and then seeming to endeavour to burst beyond, the adamantine vault that bent over, sustaining and enclosing the world."
15674,"The hour had grown perilously late my watch said :, and the Arkham bus left Town Square at eight so I tried to give my thoughts as neutral and practical a cast as possible, meanwhile walking rapidly through the deserted streets of gaping roofs and leaning houses toward the hotel where I had checked my valise and would find my bus."
15675,"Armitage, with Rice and Morgan, started to walk in the direction indicated; and most of the natives followed slowly."
15676,"""Bless my soul why, he's the man"" "" mandragora Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep Which thou owd'st yesterday"" here roared our Climax just in my ear, and shaking his fist in my face all the time, in a way that I couldn't stand, and I wouldn't."
15677,"""We set out with a fresh wind on our starboard quarter, and for some time spanked along at a great rate, never dreaming of danger, for indeed we saw not the slightest reason to apprehend it."
15678,"Their outlines were human, semi human, fractionally human, and not human at all the horde was grotesquely heterogeneous."
15679,I cannot pretend to describe what I then felt.
15680,"Indeed, as the duties to be performed involve high responsibilities, and large amounts of money must necessarily pass through the hands of those engaged, it is deemed advisable to demand a deposit of fifty dollars from each clerk employed."
15681,"It seemed to have been constructed for no especial use in itself, but formed merely the interval between two of the colossal supports of the roof of the catacombs, and was backed by one of their circumscribing walls of solid granite."
15682,"And the boy said to him: ""Art thou not indeed he of whom the archons tell, who seekest a far city in a fair land?"
15683,"But those words are false, for the wave may be dark but it is not bitter."
15684,"Not the wild, raving most miserable Mathilda but a youthful Hermitess dedicated to seclusion and whose bosom she must strive to keep free from all tumult and unholy despair The fanciful nunlike dress that I had adopted; the knowledge that my very existence was a secret known only to myself; the solitude to which I was for ever hereafter destined nursed gentle thoughts in my wounded heart."
15685,"""We had a fellow here once,"" said a fat little gentleman, who sat at my right, ""a fellow that fancied himself a tea pot; and by the way, is it not especially singular how often this particular crotchet has entered the brain of the lunatic?"
15686,It was not possible to say how the injuries had been inflicted.
15687,At that instant some person tried the latch of the door.
15688,"Whateley saw how things stood, and tried to answer lightly."
15689,"Whether you ever get this letter or not is point of little importance, as I write altogether for my own amusement."
15690,"Be it your care to foster this similarity be it your care to render her worthy of him, so that, when she glory in her origin, she take not shame for what she is."""
15691,"Soon after dark they arrived, and gave me a most cordial welcome."
15692,"He gave old Matt the very best his skill could produce, but was thrifty enough to save the rejected specimen, and to use it when Asaph Sawyer died of a malignant fever."
15693,"Could we suppose an oversight in one, or two, or three, this oversight would have been remedied by a fourth."
15694,"The Frenchman followed in despair; the ape, razor still in hand, occasionally stopping to look back and gesticulate at its pursuer, until the latter had nearly come up with it."
15695,"The young woman was again occupied in arranging the cottage, the old man walked before the cottage in the sun for a few minutes, leaning on the arm of the youth."
15696,"I was going to run, but he stopped me."
15697,"Thus, thus, and not otherwise, shall I be lost."
15698,"Towards evening dark thunder clouds arose above the horrizon and I heard its distant roll after sunset they darkened the whole sky and it began to rain, the lightning lighted up the whole country and the thunder drowned the noise of our carriage."
15699,"The slopes which encompassed the vale could not fairly be called hills, unless at their northern face."
15700,"All my feelings, even of exultation and triumph, were changed to bitterness, if unparticipated; Perdita, even in joy, fled to loneliness, and could go on from day to day, neither expressing her emotions, nor seeking a fellow feeling in another mind."
15701,"He at length opened it, and drawing there from a huge letter sealed with red sealing wax and tied carefully with red tape, let it fall precisely at the feet of the burgomaster, Superbus Von Underduk."
15702,It was in a recess near the head of the ravine to the south of Hymettus.
15703,"The coming summer was the extreme end of our vista; and, when we arrived there, instead of a continuation of the long road, a gulph yawned, into which we must of force be precipitated."
15704,"Mr. L. makes his lens have a power of , times."
15705,"That party, however, could hardly yet be considered a minority in the kingdom, who extolled the ornament of the column, ""the Corinthian capital of polished society;"" they appealed to prejudices without number, to old attachments and young hopes; to the expectation of thousands who might one day become peers; they set up as a scarecrow, the spectre of all that was sordid, mechanic and base in the commercial republics."
15706,But in these accounts it is the fact it is the reality it is the history which excites.
15707,"For the hours of thy happiness are over and joy is not gathered twice in a life, as the roses of Paestum twice in a year."
15708,"The interruption was not produced by my fright, nor by the rapidly increasing storm amidst whose fury I was presently to open my eyes on a smoky solitude of blackened ruins."
15709,"This opinion, idle in itself, was the one to which, as I gazed, my imagination most readily assented; and, mentioning it to the guide, I was rather surprised to hear him say that, although it was the view almost universally entertained of the subject by the Norwegians, it nevertheless was not his own."
15710,The king elevated his forehead into innumerable wrinkles; the gouty little old man puffed like a pair of bellows; the lady of the winding sheet waved her nose to and fro; the gentleman in the cotton drawers pricked up his ears; she of the shroud gasped like a dying fish; and he of the coffin looked stiff and rolled up his eyes.
15711,"As the moon climbed higher in the sky, I began to see that the slopes of the valley were not quite so perpendicular as I had imagined."
15712,"During a free period he shewed the queer image to several professors, all of whom were intensely interested, though none of them could shed any light upon its nature or origin."
15713,"""The full moon damn ye ye . . ."
15714,"I did only a retail business myself, but my old habits of system carried me swimmingly along."
15715,"And through this revolting graveyard of the universe the muffled, maddening beating of drums, and thin, monotonous whine of blasphemous flutes from inconceivable, unlighted chambers beyond Time; the detestable pounding and piping whereunto dance slowly, awkwardly, and absurdly the gigantic, tenebrous ultimate gods the blind, voiceless, mindless gargoyles whose soul is Nyarlathotep."
15716,The face assumed the usual pinched and sunken outline.
15717,"The loungers reflected, thinking of the door and runway, and of the cattle that so swiftly disappeared."
15718,"His talents and general amiability had recommended him to the notice of the heiress, by whom he seems to have been truly beloved; but her pride of birth decided her, finally, to reject him, and to wed a Monsieur Renelle, a banker and a diplomatist of some eminence."
15719,"The adroitness, too, was no less worthy of observation by which he contrived to shift the sense of the grotesque from the creator to the created from his own person to the absurdities to which he had given rise."
15720,"If any one has a critical turn, it is he."
15721,Such visions as I had experienced were too much for me to endure again.
15722,"OF course I shall not pretend to consider it any matter for wonder, that the extraordinary case of M. Valdemar has excited discussion."
15723,"Oh, that I had forever remained in my native wood, nor known nor felt beyond the sensations of hunger, thirst, and heat ""Of what a strange nature is knowledge It clings to the mind when it has once seized on it like a lichen on the rock."
15724,Do not regret this; for death is a too terrible an sic object for the living.
15725,"Wilbur had with him the priceless but imperfect copy of Dr. Dee's English version which his grandfather had bequeathed him, and upon receiving access to the Latin copy he at once began to collate the two texts with the aim of discovering a certain passage which would have come on the st page of his own defective volume."
15726,"We also denied the request of a delegation headed by Seaman Zimmer, that the curious carved ivory head be cast into the sea."
15727,"After many struggles, she succeeded, and turned to join the company."
15728,"I felt, in my visions, a cosmic and abysmal loneness; with hostility surging from all sides upon some prison where I lay confined."
15729,Nothing could exceed the love and respect which the younger cottagers exhibited towards their venerable companion.
15730,"An' they's awful kinder marks in the yard, tew great raound marks bigger raound than a hogshead, an' all sticky with stuff like is on the blowed up haouse."
15731,"Gross stupidity, falsehood, and muddled thinking are not dream; and form no escape from life to a mind trained above their level."
15732,"In the morning Randolph was up early, and would have run off to the upper timber lot if Uncle Chris had not caught him and forced him into his chair by the breakfast table."
15733,"An officer of artillery, a man of gigantic stature and of robust health, being thrown from an unmanageable horse, received a very severe contusion upon the head, which rendered him insensible at once; the skull was slightly fractured, but no immediate danger was apprehended."
15734,It did not require the measured sounds of human language to syllable the story of my extasy.
15735,"""Proceed,"" I said; ""herein is the Amontillado."
15736,When the driver came out of the store I looked at him more carefully and tried to determine the source of my evil impression.
15737,"But the olive grove still stands, as does the tree growing out of the tomb of Kalos, and the old bee keeper told me that sometimes the boughs whisper to one another in the night wind, saying over and over again, ""Οἶδα Οἶδα I know I know"" We were sitting on a dilapidated seventeenth century tomb in the late afternoon of an autumn day at the old burying ground in Arkham, and speculating about the unnamable."
15738,"We were fellow sojourners for a week about six years ago, at Earl's Hotel, in Providence, Rhode Island; and I presume that I conversed with him, at various times, for some three or four hours altogether."
15739,For a long time I was their only care.
15740,"And then say that my father had surely lost his wits ever since my mother's death; that he was mad and that I was fortunate, for in one of his fits he might have killed me instead of destroying his own crazed being."
15741,"I quaintly termed the domination of the Baron Ritzner von Jung, ever rightly entered into the mystery which overshadowed his character."
15742,"There in the narrow hall, outside the bolted door with the covered keyhole, I often heard sounds which filled me with an indefinable dread the dread of vague wonder and brooding mystery."
15743,"Silent and sparkling, bright and baleful, those moon cursed waters hurried I knew not whither; whilst from the embowered banks white lotos blossoms fluttered one by one in the opiate night wind and dropped despairingly into the stream, swirling away horribly under the arched, carven bridge, and staring back with the sinister resignation of calm, dead faces."
15744,But in a brief period I ceased to think upon the subject; my attention being all absorbed in a contemplated departure for Oxford.
15745,Our man of business holds it as a point of his faith that work should never be paid for until done.
15746,There was a vibration as if the wood had fallen farther than it had fallen before.
15747,"Finally, with Carrington Harris's permission, I fitted a key to the disused door opening from the cellar directly upon Benefit Street, preferring to have a more immediate access to the outside world than the dark stairs, ground floor hall, and front door could give."
15748,The magistrate observed me with a keen eye and of course drew an unfavourable augury from my manner.
15749,"Then came a sort of island of higher ground, where the line passed through a shallow open cut choked with bushes and brambles."
15750,"I passed an hour in this state of mind, when suddenly I reflected how fearful the combat which I momentarily expected would be to my wife, and I earnestly entreated her to retire, resolving not to join her until I had obtained some knowledge as to the situation of my enemy."
15751,"I have said that he was a poet: when he was three and twenty years of age he first published a poem, and it was hailed by the whole nation with enthusiasm and delight."
15752,"I had not seen him since that day, two months and a half before, when he had told me toward what goal his physical and metaphysical researches were leading; when he had answered my awed and almost frightened remonstrances by driving me from his laboratory and his house in a burst of fanatical rage."
15753,"Do so; if your high heart, incapable of my infirmity of purpose, refuses to bend to the lowness of mine."
15754,"In investigations such as we are now pursuing, it should not be so much asked 'what has occurred,' as 'what has occurred that has never occurred before.'"
15755,"I began putting out feelers as we walked along to Water Street and turned southward amidst the omnipresent desolation and crazily tilted ruins, but found that the aged tongue did not loosen as quickly as I had expected."
15756,Indeed I had no fear on her account.
15757,"For a moment there was a wild lurid light alone, visiting and penetrating all things."
15758,"As it is, the constables have had a sad time of it, running hither and thither, and all they can do is to declare the man of business most emphatically, a ""hen knee high"" by which some persons imagine them to imply that, in fact, he is n."
15759,The sentence had passed; and it appeared to me that a very long interval of time had since elapsed.
15760,"""A thousand pounds,"" said I. ""Beautiful"" said he, entranced."
15761,"My father was enraptured on finding me freed from the vexations of a criminal charge, that I was again allowed to breathe the fresh atmosphere and permitted to return to my native country."
15762,"We were soon overpowered by numbers, and driven to seek refuge in a species of kiosk."
15763,"why, ""of Lord Cornwallis."""
15764,"The old man was pulling at my sleeve, but I was determined to be the last."
15765,"His countenance expressed sympathy and compassion; he drew a chair close to mine and addressed me in French, ""I fear that this place is very shocking to you; can I do anything to make you more comfortable?"""
15766,"I felt ahead, touched the back of Zann's chair, and then found and shook his shoulder in an effort to bring him to his senses."
15767,"Then, summoning the wild courage of despair, a throng of the revellers at once threw themselves into the black apartment, and, seizing the mummer, whose tall figure stood erect and motionless within the shadow of the ebony clock, gasped in unutterable horror at finding the grave cerements and corpse like mask which they handled with so violent a rudeness, untenanted by any tangible form."
15768,"It was riveted and studded with iron bolts, and surmounted with jagged iron spikes."
15769,"'They were all mildewed down hard,' says Le Soleil, adopting the opinions of its predecessors, 'with the action of the rain, and stuck together from mildew."
15770,Henry deeply felt the misfortune of being debarred from a liberal education.
15771,"The impulse increases to a wish, the wish to a desire, the desire to an uncontrollable longing, and the longing to the deep regret and mortification of the speaker, and in defiance of all consequences is indulged."
15772,Thou shalt shew me the ways of travel and I will attend thy songs at evening when the stars one by one bring dreams to the minds of dreamers.
15773,"Spirits of Good, behold the tears of my earnest prayer Bless my child Protect her from the selfish among her fellow creatures: protect her from the agonies of passion, and the despair of disappointment Peace, Hope and Love be thy guardians, oh, thou soul of my soul: thou in whom I breathe ""I dare not read my letter over for I have no time to write another, and yet I fear that some expressions in it might displease me."
15774,"It is useless, of course, to dwell upon my joy upon my transport upon my illimitable ecstasy of heart."
15775,"They are, succinctly, these: My attention, for the last three years, had been repeatedly drawn to the subject of Mesmerism; and, about nine months ago it occurred to me, quite suddenly, that in the series of experiments made hitherto, there had been a very remarkable and most unaccountable omission: no person had as yet been mesmerized in articulo mortis."
15776,"The embalming compound had worked uncannily well, for as I stared fascinatedly at the sturdy frame which had lain two weeks without stiffening I was moved to seek West's assurance that the thing was really dead."
15777,I drew a touching picture of his vacillating health; I boasted of my own strength.
15778,"From this he read me one of the drollest chapters in the world concerning ""Injuriae per applicationem, per constructionem, et per se,"" about half of which, he averred, was strictly applicable to his own ""refinedly peculiar"" case, although not one syllable of the whole matter could I understand for the life of me."
15779,Thus a great step has been taken.
15780,Their splendor more dazzled than enlightened me.
15781,"And then down we came with a sweep, a slide, and a plunge, that made me feel sick and dizzy, as if I was falling from some lofty mountain top in a dream."
15782,"That was seven years before, but West looked scarcely a day older now he was small, blond, clean shaven, soft voiced, and spectacled, with only an occasional flash of a cold blue eye to tell of the hardening and growing fanaticism of his character under the pressure of his terrible investigations."
15783,"""Principally females, I presume?"" ""Oh, no every one of them men, and stout fellows, too, I can tell you."""
15784,"If you see anything strange, let me know."""
15785,"Then we split up into narrow columns, each of which seemed drawn in a different direction."
15786,"He has obtained his prize, and he pilots his boat through the flood; our eyes were fixed on him fearfully, but the stream carried him away from us; he was forced to land far lower down, and to make a considerable circuit before he could join us."
15787,The night shift did not go on that evening.
15788,"He had enjoyed my listening to his music, and wished I would come again and not mind his eccentricities."
15789,"And, all this done, let us again compare these various communications with the known MSS. of the officer."
15790,When I quitted Geneva my first labour was to gain some clue by which I might trace the steps of my fiendish enemy.
15791,"But my heart sank within me as with bitter sickness, and I refrained."
15792,"Its sweep was brief, and of course slow."
15793,The apartment was superb.
15794,"""Dearest Clerval,"" exclaimed I, ""how kind, how very good you are to me."
15795,Thus it is abundantly clear that the gang quitted the Barrière du Roule prior to the screams overheard ?
15796,"And now the Comforter fled for ever, and a still sterner Despair reigned triumphant; for I could not help perceiving the absence of the paddings which I had so carefully prepared and then, too, there came suddenly to my nostrils the strong peculiar odor of moist earth."
15797,"Well it was here we sat together, and when you hear all that past all that of terrible tore our souls even in this placid spot, which but for strange passions might have been a paradise to us, you will not wonder that I remember it as I looked on it that its calm might give me calm, and inspire me not only with courage but with persuasive words."
15798,"It was labelled as of probable East Indian or Indo Chinese provenance, though the attribution was frankly tentative."
15799,"As I gradually steadied myself and got readjusted to this second room of deviltry and morbidity, I began to analyse some of the points in my sickening loathing."
15800,"It has occurred to me, therefore, that I may as well retire from the field of Letters and repose upon my laurels."
15801,"He was the only one as kep' on with the East Injy an' Pacific trade, though Esdras Martin's barkentine Malay Pride made a venter as late as 'twenty eight."
15802,"Shudderingly I felt that I knew what had obliterated the unfortunate servants, and could not exclude the things from my mind as I strove to observe other properties of the newly visible world that lies unseen around us."
15803,"For that which was not for that which had no form for that which had no thought for that which had no sentience for that which was soulless, yet of which matter formed no portion for all this nothingness, yet for all this immortality, the grave was still a home, and the corrosive hours, co mates."
15804,"The hue of the orbs was the most brilliant of black, and, far over them, hung jetty lashes of great length."
15805,"When the last of the band was out of sight I resumed my progress; darting around the corner into Lafayette Street, and crossing Eliot very hurriedly lest stragglers of the party be still advancing along that thoroughfare."
15806,"His interest became a hellish and perverse addiction to the repellently and fiendishly abnormal; he gloated calmly over artificial monstrosities which would make most healthy men drop dead from fright and disgust; he became, behind his pallid intellectuality, a fastidious Baudelaire of physical experiment a languid Elagabalus of the tombs."
15807,"""Why, I will tell you,"" replied the Prefect, as he gave a long, steady and contemplative puff, and settled himself in his chair."
15808,"With the same wary prudence that characterized her whole conduct, she concealed her discovery, but hastened to remove her son from the sphere of the attractive Greek."
15809,He was nurtured in prosperity and attended by all its advantages; every one loved him and wished to gratify him.
15810,"He entered, at some length, into what he conceived to be the nature of his malady."
15811,"""You well know, Victor, that our union had been the favourite plan of your parents ever since our infancy."
15812,That certain wags in Rotterdam have certain especial antipathies to certain burgomasters and astronomers.
15813,"Moreover, for the first time in my life I experienced the emotion of dread."
15814,"Scores of rabbits and guinea pigs had been killed and treated, but their trail was a blind one."
15815,"Non Euclidean calculus and quantum physics are enough to stretch any brain; and when one mixes them with folklore, and tries to trace a strange background of multi dimensional reality behind the ghoulish hints of the Gothic tales and the wild whispers of the chimney corner, one can hardly expect to be wholly free from mental tension."
15816,"Joe knew about such things, for his grandmother in the old country had heard tales from her grandmother."
15817,"This epoch these later years took unto themselves a sudden elevation in turpitude, whose origin alone it is my present purpose to assign."
15818,"He spoke, too, of that Edmund Carter who had just escaped hanging in the Salem witchcraft, and who had placed in an antique box a great silver key handed down from his ancestors."
15819,What baffled us was our utter ignorance of the aspect in which we might encounter the thing.
15820,"Adrian, the matchless brother of my soul, the sensitive and excellent Adrian, loving all, and beloved by all, yet seemed destined not to find the half of himself, which was to complete his happiness."
15821,"She is the celebrated Madame Lalande the beauty of the day par excellence, and the talk of the whole town."
15822,When we were in company he affected gaiety but I wept to hear his hollow laugh begun by an empty smile and often ending in a bitter sneer such as never before this fatal period had wrinkled his lips.
15823,"His forehead was lofty and very fair; his nose a snub; his eyes large, heavy, glassy, and meaningless."
15824,"The Emma's men shewed fight, says the survivor, and though the schooner began to sink from shots beneath the waterline they managed to heave alongside their enemy and board her, grappling with the savage crew on the yacht's deck, and being forced to kill them all, the number being slightly superior, because of their particularly abhorrent and desperate though rather clumsy mode of fighting."
15825,The necessary knowledge is that of what to observe.
15826,"This noble spirited note I kissed a million times, and committed, no doubt, on its account, a thousand other extravagances that have now escaped my memory."
15827,"These thoughts encouraged Raymond, as he stood at the door of the highest room of the house."
15828,"Lord Raymond requested permission to accompany her to Windsor Castle, to which she consented, and they quitted the cottage together."
15829,"My supply of water had been put on board in kegs containing five gallons each, and ranged very securely around the interior of the car."
15830,"Old legends are hazy and ambiguous, and in historic times all attempts at crossing forbidden gaps seem complicated by strange and terrible alliances with beings and messengers from outside."
15831,"The time elapsing between the hearing of the voices in contention and the breaking open of the room door, was variously stated by the witnesses."
15832,"They were not expressed in words, nor even reduced to form in my own mind; but they filled my soul, exalting my thoughts, raising a glow of enthusiasm, and led me out of the obscure path in which I before walked, into the bright noon enlightened highway of mankind, making me, citizen of the world, a candidate for immortal honors, an eager aspirant to the praise and sympathy of my fellow men."
15833,"For a short time he remained silent, apparently striving to master his emotion."
15834,We passed St. Paul's.
15835,"The body of the journal, as given, is in the hand writing of Mr. Mason, and a P. S. is appended, each day, by Mr. Ainsworth, who has in preparation, and will shortly give the public a more minute, and no doubt, a thrillingly interesting account of the voyage."
15836,"""A friend,"" replied Raymond in the same dialect."
15837,"""Something of that kind."""
15838,The oldest seaman in Norway never experienced any thing like it.
15839,That was what she said.
15840,"""It could not have been more than two minutes afterward until we suddenly felt the waves subside, and were enveloped in foam."
15841,"There had been much in her stern nature to impress me with the belief that, to her, death would have come without its terrors; but not so."
15842,"Alas who is safe, if she be convicted of crime?"
15843,"Being more than a little piqued at the Incivility of one whose Celebrity made me solicitous of his Approbation, I ventur'd to retaliate in kind, and told him, I was surpris'd that a Man of Sense shou'd judge the Thoughtfulness of one whose Productions he admitted never having read."
15844,"Wilson,"" said our host, stooping to remove from beneath his feet an exceedingly luxurious cloak of rare furs, ""Mr."
15845,"In a few minutes the voice was heard again, announcing that the seventh limb was attained."
15846,"Oh, no, no so go home at once, now, John, to your odious old woods of Concord Go home to your woods, old owl go You won't Oh, poh, poh, don't do so You've got to go, you know So go at once, and don't go slow, for nobody owns you here, you know Oh John, John, if you don't go you're no homo no You're only a fowl, an owl, a cow, a sow, a doll, a poll; a poor, old, good for nothing to nobody, log, dog, hog, or frog, come out of a Concord bog."
15847,"When the situation of the game is difficult or complex, we never perceive the Turk either shake his head or roll his eyes."
15848,"My ardour was indeed the astonishment of the students, and my proficiency that of the masters."
15849,But I perceive we have arrived at the city itself.
15850,"Under the circumstances of large reward offered, and full pardon to any King's evidence, it is not to be imagined, for a moment, that some member of a gang of low ruffians, or of any body of men, would not long ago have betrayed his accomplices."
15851,"""This bug is to make my fortune,"" he continued, with a triumphant smile, ""to reinstate me in my family possessions."
15852,The eye easily discerns the sister land; they were united once; and the little path that runs between looks in a map but as a trodden footway through high grass.
15853,"I might feel gratitude to another but I never more could love or hope as I had done; it was all suffering; even my pleasures were endured, not enjoyed."
15854,In the middle of the room stood a table in the centre of which again arose a huge tub of what appeared to be punch.
15855,"These folk say that on a table in a bare room on the ground floor are many peculiar bottles, in each a small piece of lead suspended pendulum wise from a string."
15856,"On every hand were the signs of neglect and decrepitude, and I seemed haunted by the notion that Warren and I were the first living creatures to invade a lethal silence of centuries."
15857,"She left me, and I continued some time walking up and down the passages of the house and inspecting every corner that might afford a retreat to my adversary."
15858,We quitted Athens on the nd of June.
15859,"A fourth could only suppose it the Yankee's design to X press, in a general way, his X asperation."
15860,I AM come of a race noted for vigor of fancy and ardor of passion.
15861,Nothing is more vague than impressions of individual identity.
15862,"It is separated from the main land by a scarcely perceptible creek, oozing its way through a wilderness of reeds and slime, a favorite resort of the marsh hen."
15863,"So Carter bought stranger books and sought out deeper and more terrible men of fantastic erudition; delving into arcana of consciousness that few have trod, and learning things about the secret pits of life, legend, and immemorial antiquity which disturbed him ever afterward."
15864,"In this manner, at last, I would perpetually catch myself pondering upon my security, and repeating, in a low undertone, the phrase, ""I am safe."""
15865,"The dream narratives and cuttings collected by the professor were, of course, strong corroboration; but the rationalism of my mind and the extravagance of the whole subject led me to adopt what I thought the most sensible conclusions."
15866,"Who shall say where the one ends, and where the other begins?"
15867,I am not immortal; and the thread of my history might be spun out to the limits of my existence.
15868,He must sign in his own blood the book of Azathoth and take a new secret name now that his independent delvings had gone so far.
15869,A vain concession; his demeanour quickly betrayed his secret to the quick eyes of the ex queen.
15870,"""I had told you that this was in reference to Orion, formerly written Urion; and, from certain pungencies connected with this explanation, I was aware that you could not have forgotten it."
15871,"It will appear perhaps an observation somewhat over curious, but this wood would have every characteristic of Spanish oak, if Spanish oak were distended by any unnatural means."
15872,"In this narrative I have therefore designated myself as William Wilson, a fictitious title not very dissimilar to the real."
15873,His eye would trouble me no more.
15874,"It seems these Kanakys was sacrificin' heaps o' their young men an' maidens to some kind o' god things that lived under the sea, an' gittin' all kinds o' favour in return."
15875,"Here was, indeed, the fairest field for the display of invention, or imagination, in the endless combining of forms of novel Beauty; the elements which should enter into combination being, at all times, and by a vast superiority, the most glorious which the earth could afford."
15876,"The fact is, Sir Humphrey Davy was about the last man in the world to commit himself on scientific topics."
15877,During this short voyage I saw the lightning playing on the summit of Mont Blanc in the most beautiful figures.
15878,"He wa'n't all human hisself, I allus says to everybody; an' I think he an' Ol' Whateley must a raised suthin' in that there nailed up haouse as ain't even so human as he was."
15879,"Now, all this is the result either of inability in Maelzel to do better, or of intentional neglect accidental neglect being out of the question, when we consider that the whole time of the ingenious proprietor is occupied in the improvement of his machines."
15880,A sentiment approaching happiness followed the total resignation of one's being to the guardianship of the world's ruler.
15881,"Having filled my pockets with the flashlight's aid, I put on my hat and tiptoed to the windows to consider chances of descent."
15882,Yes I repeat it as thou shouldst be.
15883,"""In Greek we must have some thing pretty from Demosthenes, for example."
15884,"The fact of our coming death affected him curiously, and he would frequently pray in remorse over the men, women, and children we had sent to the bottom; forgetting that all things are noble which serve the German state."
15885,Perdita grew in beauty and excellence under his eye; I no longer recognised my reserved abstracted sister in the fascinating and open hearted wife of Raymond.
15886,Who can follow an animal which can traverse the sea of ice and inhabit caves and dens where no man would venture to intrude?
15887,"Elwood had been studying in the small hours and had come up for help on a differential equation, only to find Gilman absent."
15888,Here the well written and urgent communications to the journals are much in the way of corroboration.
15889,What he said tallied up with what I'd heard.
15890,"They only saw a poor girl broken in spirit, who spoke in a low and gentle voice, and from underneath whose downcast lids tears would sometimes steal which she strove to hide."
15891,"He soon took great interest in me, and sometimes forgot his own grief to sit beside me and endeavour to cheer me."
15892,"There's poetry in this sort of thing, you know or perhaps you don't know, but it's all the same."""
15893,"My heart, which was before sorrowful, now swelled with something like joy; I exclaimed, ""Wandering spirits, if indeed ye wander, and do not rest in your narrow beds, allow me this faint happiness, or take me, as your companion, away from the joys of life."""
15894,But not so: he was made to diddle.
15895,"Its forests are of aloe and sandalwood, even as the fragrant groves of Camorin, and among the trees flutter gay birds sweet with song."
15896,"But here were books, and here were men who had penetrated deeper and knew more."
15897,They say too that the whole expression of my countenance had changed.
15898,"Dr. Halsey in particular had distinguished himself in sacrificing service, applying his extreme skill with whole hearted energy to cases which many others shunned because of danger or apparent hopelessness."
15899,Shortly before ten the next morning I stood with one small valise in front of Hammond's Drug Store in old Market Square waiting for the Innsmouth bus.
15900,We peer into the abyss we grow sick and dizzy.
15901,I left my guardian's house and I was never heard of again; it was believed from the letters that I left and other circumstances that I planned that I had destroyed myself.
15902,"I then thought that my father would be unjust if he ascribed my neglect to vice or faultiness on my part, but I am now convinced that he was justified in conceiving that I should not be altogether free from blame."
15903,"Nor was there ever a marble city of Aira, nor those who could delight in strange songs, save in the dreams of mine old playmate Iranon who is gone."""
15904,The very letters have an air of profundity about them.
15905,"Lionel, he sleeps there; that is the grave of Raymond, he whom in my youth I first loved; whom my heart accompanied in days of separation and anger; to whom I am now joined for ever."
15906,"All men paid homage to Kalos and Musides, and marvelled that no shadow of artistic jealousy cooled the warmth of their brotherly friendship."
15907,"I found that the sparrow uttered none but harsh notes, whilst those of the blackbird and thrush were sweet and enticing."
15908,The great problem is accomplished.
15909,"He knew that I could not have a more kind and attentive nurse than himself; and, firm in the hope he felt of my recovery, he did not doubt that, instead of doing harm, he performed the kindest action that he could towards them."
15910,"Better have loved despair, safer kissed her."
15911,"I retired to rest at night; my slumbers, as it were, waited on and ministered to by the assemblance of grand shapes which I had contemplated during the day."
15912,"Let us suppose, gentle reader, that it is now the year of the world three thousand eight hundred and thirty, and let us, for a few minutes, imagine ourselves at that most grotesque habitation of man, the remarkable city of Antioch."
15913,"Glancing at the people on the sidewalks, I thought I detected in them a curious wish to avoid looking at the bus or at least a wish to avoid seeming to look at it."
15914,"By what miracle I escaped destruction, it is impossible to say."
15915,"I remarked, as I say, their grotesqueness and strange size; but in a moment decided that they were merely the imaginary gods of some primitive fishing or seafaring tribe; some tribe whose last descendant had perished eras before the first ancestor of the Piltdown or Neanderthal Man was born."
15916,"When I saw this lore, I knew that it touched on the scenes I had haunted, and I therefore read long in the yellowed papyrus."
15917,"Elwood will never forget it, and was forced to stay out of college the rest of the term because of the resulting nervous breakdown."
15918,But in all this in this identification of mere matter with God is there nothing of irreverence?
15919,Other nurses were procured; and at ten o'clock I left the house in company with the two physicians and Mr. L l.
15920,"This town had some queer people, and there had undoubtedly been several disappearances."
15921,"Stupified and aghast, I had myself no power to move from the upright position I had assumed upon first hearing the shriek, and must have presented to the eyes of the agitated group a spectral and ominous appearance, as with pale countenance and rigid limbs, I floated down among them in that funereal gondola."
15922,During the next few days Gilman enjoyed an almost perfect immunity from morbid manifestations.
15923,"I learned, from the views of social life which it developed, to admire their virtues and to deprecate the vices of mankind."
15924,Is it wonderful that the one known atrocity should influence the popular judgment in regard to the other unknown?
15925,"I have seen the captain face to face, and in his own cabin but, as I expected, he paid me no attention."
15926,"""Never was nobody like Cap'n Obed old limb o' Satan Heh, heh I kin mind him a tellin' abaout furren parts, an' callin' all the folks stupid fer goin' to Christian meetin' an' bearin' their burdens meek an' lowly."
15927,"And the man listened to the sighs of the water lilies, and to the murmur that came up from among them."
15928,"Guard, I entreat you, a firm persuasion of my sincerity in the inmost recesses of your heart out of the reach of the casual winds that may disturb its surface."
15929,The only substantial disappointment encountered in this site was that which concerned the prevalence of violent thunderstorms in summer.
15930,"Upon this text many fanatics arose, who prophesied that the end of time was come."
15931,They must be up to something.
15932,"""Humph"" said I, twisting it to one side."
15933,"P. Still, there is one of your expressions which I find it impossible to comprehend ""the truly substantive vastness of infinity."""
15934,"Thus it will be seen that no two of the candles are of the same height, and thus also the difficulty of ascertaining the material of the breast of the figure against which the light is especially directed is greatly augmented by the dazzling effect of the complicated crossings of the rays crossings which are brought about by placing the centres of radiation all upon different levels. ."
15935,"He talked but little, and usually in the common jargon of the underworld; but occasionally, when inflamed by an unusually generous dose of crude whiskey, would burst forth into strings of incomprehensible polysyllables and snatches of sonorous prose and verse which led certain habitués to conjecture that he had seen better days."
15936,Look over Channing's poems and quote what he says about a 'fat little man with a delusive show of Can.' Put in something about the Supernal Oneness.
15937,"Moulded by the dead brain of a hybrid nightmare, would not such a vaporous terror constitute in all loathsome truth the exquisitely, the shriekingly unnamable?"
15938,"All this aggressive mechanism we set in the cellar in positions carefully arranged with reference to the cot and chairs, and to the spot before the fireplace where the mould had taken strange shapes."
15939,"Soft tears again bedewed my cheeks, and I even raised my humid eyes with thankfulness towards the blessed sun, which bestowed such joy upon me."
15940,"There can be no doubt, as we have before observed, and as we will presently endeavor to show, that the principle, or rather the result, of this solution is the true one."
15941,"He would not, he found, have to pile another on his platform to make the proper height; for the hole was on exactly the right level to use as soon as its size might permit."
15942,"Reasoning and persuasion were thrown away upon her; she would endure no hindrance, no delay."
15943,Yet I would die to make her happy.
15944,"Pluto had not a white hair upon any portion of his body; but this cat had a large, although indefinite splotch of white, covering nearly the whole region of the breast."
15945,"""And you never confined your patients?"""
15946,"When she got Sally Sawyer, housekeeper at Seth Bishop's, the nearest place to Whateley's, it became her turn to listen instead of transmit; for Sally's boy Chauncey, who slept poorly, had been up on the hill toward Whateley's, and had dashed back in terror after one look at the place, and at the pasturage where Mr. Bishop's cows had been left out all night."
15947,"This kind of popularity, like every other, is evanescent: and the difficulties of every kind with which he had to contend, increased in a frightful ratio compared with his small means of extricating himself."
15948,"Indeed, the direction I had hitherto taken, had filled me with uneasiness; for it was evident that, had I continued it much longer, there would have been no possibility of my arriving at the moon at all, whose orbit is inclined to the ecliptic at only the small angle of degrees ' "". ""April th."
15949,"He is usually removed to the public hospitals."""
15950,"Greek phrase Anerh o pheugoen kai palin makesetai There is a tolerably good translation of it in Hudibras 'For he that flies may fight again, Which he can never do that's slain.' ""In a Blackwood article nothing makes so fine a show as your Greek."
15951,Great God What agony I endured.
15952,"May not even this be a feint that will increase your triumph by affording a wider scope for your revenge?"" ""How is this?"
15953,"There for with your leave, my sister, I will put some trust in preceding navigators there snow and frost are banished; and, sailing over a calm sea, we may be wafted to a land surpassing in wonders and in beauty every region hitherto discovered on the habitable globe."
15954,On the night of her return she sickened of the plague.
15955,"I had begun to dig in the afternoon, because a thunderstorm was brewing, and now that it was dark and the storm had burst above the maniacally thick foliage I was glad."
15956,"The vault above became obscured, lightning flashed from the heavy masses, followed instantaneously by crashing thunder; then the big rain fell."
15957,"I stood beside the sources of the Arveiron, which take their rise in a glacier, that with slow pace is advancing down from the summit of the hills to barricade the valley."
15958,"With Mr. Addison and Dr. Swift I later became very well acquainted, and was an even more familiar Friend to Mr. Pope, whom I knew and respected till the Day of his Death."
15959,"The few members who were present, had come more for the sake of terminating the business by securing a legal attendance, than under the idea of a debate."
15960,If I fled I should be pursued; in life there was no escape for me: why then I must die.
15961,"Upon making this discovery I ceased to sleep comfortably; though something of resigned tranquillity came back as I gradually formed the habit of keeping off the streets by day and venturing abroad only at night, when darkness calls forth what little of the past still hovers wraith like about, and old white doorways remember the stalwart forms that once passed through them."
15962,This purpose is now accomplished; he will never see me more.
15963,"It had been a favourite resort of Adrian; it was secluded; and he often said that in boyhood, his happiest hours were spent here; having escaped the stately bondage of his mother, he sat on the rough hewn steps that led to the spring, now reading a favourite book, now musing, with speculation beyond his years, on the still unravelled skein of morals or metaphysics."
15964,I could have clasped the red walls to my bosom as a garment of eternal peace.
15965,"From the position near the stone wall, as described, the buildings were seen at great advantage for the southeastern angle was thrown forward so that the eye took in at once the whole of the two fronts, with the picturesque eastern gable, and at the same time obtained just a sufficient glimpse of the northern wing, with parts of a pretty roof to the spring house, and nearly half of a light bridge that spanned the brook in the near vicinity of the main buildings."
15966,"The rattling continued, growing somewhat louder."
15967,"Folks see his three darters a wearin' gold like things as nobody'd never see on 'em afore, an' smoke started comin' aout o' the refin'ry chimbly."
15968,"He heard a lock rattle and bolt shoot, and a long creaking follow as if a heavy door were slowly and cautiously opened."
15969,"This difference is sufficient to cause the body to sink, as a general rule; but is insufficient in the cases of individuals with small bones and an abnormal quantity of flaccid or fatty matter."
15970,Quite an analogous diddle is this.
15971,"It was apparent that my conversation had interested the father in my behalf, and I was a fool in having exposed my person to the horror of his children."
15972,"I can hardly describe the mood in which I was left by this harrowing episode an episode at once mad and pitiful, grotesque and terrifying."
15973,"The knowledge that I am here, rises with me in the morning, and enables me to endure the light; it is mingled with my food, which else were poison; it walks, it sleeps with me, for ever it accompanies me."
15974,"She continued to rave of her speedy meeting with her beloved in the grave, of his death nigh at hand; sometimes she solemnly declared that he was summoned; sometimes she bewailed his hard destiny."
15975,Now and then on some mountain top a gaunt circle of stones could be glimpsed against the sky.
15976,"""I remember, the first time that I did this, the young woman, when she opened the door in the morning, appeared greatly astonished on seeing a great pile of wood on the outside."
15977,"What demon urged me to breathe that sound, which in its very recollection was wont to make ebb the purple blood in torrents from the temples to the heart?"
15978,I endeavoured to change my course but quickly found that if I again made the attempt the boat would be instantly filled with water.
15979,In this way the coach proceeded until it arrived opposite the chair of the young prince.
15980,"His careless extravagance, which made him squander immense sums of money to satisfy passing whims, which from their apparent energy he dignified with the name of passions, often displayed itself in unbounded generosity."
15981,"She swallowed the wine unhesitatingly, and I forbore to speak to her of a circumstance which must, after all, I considered, have been but the suggestion of a vivid imagination, rendered morbidly active by the terror of the lady, by the opium, and by the hour."
15982,"We all sign the initials of the society after our names, in the fashion of the R. S. A., Royal Society of Arts the S. D. U. K., Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, c, c."
15983,"Locked in his embrace, she spoke thus, and cast back her head, seeking an assent to her words in his eyes they were sparkling with ineffable delight."
15984,"Now north of archaic Kingsport the crags climb lofty and curious, terrace on terrace, till the northernmost hangs in the sky like a grey frozen wind cloud."
15985,"She looked on it as a deceitful dream, and tried to throw off the consciousness of it; but like the shirt of Nessus, it clung to her very flesh, and ate with sharp agony into her vital principle."
15986,"Chance or rather the evil influence, the Angel of Destruction, which asserted omnipotent sway over me from the moment I turned my reluctant steps from my father's door led me first to M. Krempe, professor of natural philosophy."
15987,"for the convulsive pressure of that trembling hand? that hand which fell, as Mentoni turned into the palace, accidentally, upon the hand of the stranger."
15988,"Was man, indeed, at once so powerful, so virtuous and magnificent, yet so vicious and base?"
15989,And he said that the young man we had found and tossed overboard was their leader.
15990,"He boasted to me, with a low chuckling laugh, that most men, in respect to himself, wore windows in their bosoms, and was wont to follow up such assertions by direct and very startling proofs of his intimate knowledge of my own."
15991,One of the three it is not certain which shrieked aloud at what sprawled before them among disordered tables and overturned chairs.
15992,"The risk of the achievement was, in fact, now over, although the climber was some sixty or seventy feet from the ground."
15993,"My father saw this change with pleasure, and he turned his thoughts towards the best method of eradicating the remains of my melancholy, which every now and then would return by fits, and with a devouring blackness overcast the approaching sunshine."
15994,"V. I am willing to do so, but it requires more effort than I feel able to make."
15995,"Over him hung a form which I cannot find words to describe gigantic in stature, yet uncouth and distorted in its proportions."
15996,This is no hypothesis.
15997,"At length I saw him at some distance, seated under a tree, and when he perceived me he waved his hand several times, beckoning me to approach; there was something unearthly in his mien that awed and chilled me, but I drew near."
15998,"These works I cut up thoroughly with a currycomb, and then, throwing the shreds into a sieve, sifted out carefully all that might be thought decent, a mere trifle; reserving the hard phrases, which I threw into a large tin pepper castor with longitudinal holes, so that an entire sentence could get through without material injury."
15999,"The more he reflected on the hellish diary, the more he was inclined to doubt the efficacy of any material agent in stamping out the entity which Wilbur Whateley had left behind him the earth threatening entity which, unknown to him, was to burst forth in a few hours and become the memorable Dunwich horror."
16000,"The sound of the waves was left behind; that of the multitude continued at intervals, supressed and hoarse; and though, in the city, the houses, churches, and public buildings were decorated with tapestry and banners though the soldiery lined the streets, and the inhabitants in thousands were assembled to give him hail, the same solemn silence prevailed, the soldiery presented arms, the banners vailed, many a white hand waved a streamer, and vainly sought to discern the hero in the vehicle, which, closed and encompassed by the city guards, drew him to the palace allotted for his abode."
16001,"She fears for the children she adores, and for you, the father of these, her lover, husband, protector; and you must be near her to support and encourage her."
16002,"In the mean time my friend occupied himself, with what seemed to me a minuteness altogether objectless, in a scrutiny of the various newspaper files."
16003,To what extent could the laws of sanity apply to such a case?
16004,"""Where can he be?"" said little Miss Bas Bleu."
16005,"But, unhappily, in proportion to the increase of size in the lens, and consequently of space penetrating power, is the diminution of light from the object, by diffusion of its rays."
16006,At Sabbat time it always mounted and reached through to the worlds to summon the initiate to nameless rites.
16007,"He tore from reality the mask with which she had been clothed; and the purposes of Raymond, which before had crept around, ensnaring by stealth, now stood a hunted stag even at bay as all perceived who watched the irrepressible changes of his countenance."
16008,"Nothing that I could have imagined nothing, even, that I could have gathered had I credited old Zadok's crazy tale in the most literal way would be in any way comparable to the daemoniac, blasphemous reality that I saw or believe I saw."
16009,"""That was the evidence itself,"" said Dupin, ""but it was not the peculiarity of the evidence."
16010,"She figured to herself their life in the Greek isle he had selected for their retreat; her task of soothing him; her cares for the beauteous Clara, her rides in his company, her dedication of herself to his consolation."
16011,They were so hideously silent; there was hardly a squeal when one of the last stragglers turned with the skill of long practice to make a meal in accustomed fashion on a weaker companion.
16012,"That the true result of the natural style of gardening is seen rather in the absence of all defects and incongruities than in the creation of any special wonders or miracles, is a proposition better suited to the grovelling apprehension of the herd than to the fervid dreams of the man of genius."
16013,"Light indeed glowed on the panels ahead, but it was not any light that the moon gives."
16014,"The day passed, and still he did not return."
16015,"Professor Angell, as befitted one of his authority and attainments, had had a prominent part in all the deliberations; and was one of the first to be approached by the several outsiders who took advantage of the convocation to offer questions for correct answering and problems for expert solution."
16016,"He was a fool, beyond doubt, whoever he was, and got not a kick more than he deserved."
16017,"From a feeling of cunning blindly exercised, the officious, if not malignant messenger, did not speak of Evadne's illness; but she garrulously gave an account of Raymond's frequent visits, adding to her narration such circumstances, as, while they convinced Perdita of its truth, exaggerated the unkindness and perfidy of Raymond."
16018,"Plainly, this house was of the old world."
16019,"Age and care had furrowed her cheeks, and bent her form; but her eye was still bright, her manners authoritative and unchanged; she received her daughter coldly, but displayed more feeling as she folded her grand children in her arms."
16020,"""Hear, O ye inhabitants of the earth,"" he cried, ""hear thou, all seeing, but most pitiless Heaven hear thou too, O tempest tossed heart, which breathes out these words, yet faints beneath their meaning Death is among us The earth is beautiful and flower bedecked, but she is our grave The clouds of heaven weep for us the pageantry of the stars is but our funeral torchlight."
16021,"Their hand is at your throats, yet ye see Them not; and Their habitation is even one with your guarded threshold."
16022,You appeared so utterly astonished.
16023,Hundreds of English residents returned to their own country.
16024,"Has this mind, so replete with ideas, imaginations fanciful and magnificent, which formed a world, whose existence depended on the life of its creator; has this mind perished?"
16025,"I passed under an arch out of that region of slabs and columns, and wandered through the open country; sometimes following the visible road, but sometimes leaving it curiously to tread across meadows where only occasional ruins bespoke the ancient presence of a forgotten road."
16026,We know that it will be ruinous to make delay.
16027,"Her mother ended with a look of contempt and covert triumph, which for a moment awakened the suspicions of Idris."
16028,"I looked at the cot, the chairs, the instruments, my neglected hat, and the yellowed straw hat of my uncle."
16029,"He had been seized and confined; he had escaped and wandered from London among the neighbouring towns, and, with frantic gestures and thrilling words, he unveiled to each their hidden fears, and gave voice to the soundless thought they dared not syllable."
16030,But I am content to die.
16031,"In a second I was through, and had my right knee and shoulder against a hall door which was visibly opening inward."
16032,"My distance from the moon was comparatively trifling, while the labor required by the condenser was diminished not at all, and I could discover no indication whatever of a decreasing rarity in the air."
16033,"After pressing Valdemar's hand, I took these gentlemen aside, and obtained from them a minute account of the patient's condition."
16034,"After days and nights of incredible labour and fatigue, I succeeded in discovering the cause of generation and life; nay, more, I became myself capable of bestowing animation upon lifeless matter."
16035,Anger made no part of his emotion.
16036,"It appeared to me indeed I was quite confident of the fact I could not be mistaken no I had, for some moments, carefully and anxiously observed the motions of my Diana I say that I could not be mistaken Diana smelt a rat At once I called Pompey's attention to the subject, and he he agreed with me."
16037,"The worldly reason, however, assigned for this singular proceeding, was one which I did not feel at liberty to dispute."
16038,"It was called, she said, ""The Esoteric Order of Dagon"", and was undoubtedly a debased, quasi pagan thing imported from the East a century before, at a time when the Innsmouth fisheries seemed to be going barren."
16039,Guess they must die of looking in the glass Animals hate 'em they used to have lots of horse trouble before autos came in.
16040,It extends to the uttermost ends of the earth.
16041,And here let me pause to insinuate a question.
16042,"Their croaking, baying voices, clearly used for articulate speech, held all the dark shades of expression which their staring faces lacked."
16043,"And sometimes at sunset I would climb the long hilly street to the citadel and the open place, and look down upon Aira, the magic city of marble and beryl, splendid in a robe of golden flame."
16044,"But that would be a cruel kindness, and I dare not do it."
16045,The flag of the death's head is hoisted in all engagements.
16046,"It was the first time I had ever known Wyatt to keep from me any of his artistical secrets; but here he evidently intended to steal a march upon me, and smuggle a fine picture to New York, under my very nose; expecting me to know nothing of the matter."
16047,The focal length is feet.
16048,Raymond asked me if I would accompany him to the House that evening.
16049,"The tints of the green carpet faded; and, one by one, the ruby red asphodels withered away; and there sprang up, in place of them, ten by ten, dark, eye like violets, that writhed uneasily and were ever encumbered with dew."
16050,"The characters along the base were equally baffling; and no member present, despite a representation of half the world's expert learning in this field, could form the least notion of even their remotest linguistic kinship."
16051,"On the left the creek threaded countryside was nearer, the narrow road to Ipswich gleaming white in the moonlight."
16052,"Our enemy, like the Calamity of Homer, trod our hearts, and no sound was echoed from her steps With ills the land is rife, with ills the sea, Diseases haunt our frail humanity, Through noon, through night, on casual wing they glide, Silent, a voice the power all wise denied."
16053,To day's Sunday isn't it?
16054,"The old porpoise, as I opened the drawing room door, was sitting with his feet upon the mantel piece, and a bumper of port in his paw, making strenuous efforts to accomplish the ditty."
16055,"He grew sterner of face, but never elderly."
16056,"Anything my friend may have said or written to the contrary must be erroneous, for I am no man of strength to risk the unmentionable warfare in unmentionable spheres by which alone one might achieve success."
16057,"When I told him who I was, he displayed some interest; for my uncle had excited his curiosity in probing his strange dreams, yet had never explained the reason for the study."
16058,"""On examining my dwelling, I found that one of the windows of the cottage had formerly occupied a part of it, but the panes had been filled up with wood."
16059,Of the original workmanship of this titanic thing I can only make conjectures.
16060,"But this feeling did not fail to die rapidly away, and thereunto succeeded horror, and dismay, and a chilling sense of utter helplessness and ruin."
16061,"""Try it by yourselves The man is surely mad but stay how long do you propose to be absent?"""
16062,"Speak not here of these griefs, dear Una mine, mine, forever now Una."
16063,But most of all did he dwell upon some mysterious blazing entity that shook and laughed and mocked at him.
16064,"Hereupon all, one after another there were nine in company, believed it their duty to pull me by the ear."
16065,"The morning air blowing freshly over the dewy plants, rushed into the heated room."
16066,"But never, O, never, should he see her in her degraded state."
16067,I began to find great difficulty in drawing my breath.
16068,"I think he was then approaching forty years of age, for there were deep lines in the face, wan and hollow cheeked, but oval and actually beautiful; and touches of grey in the thick, waving hair and small full beard which had once been of the deepest raven black."
16069,"Apart from the tendency to trance, however, my general health appeared to be good; nor could I perceive that it was at all affected by the one prevalent malady unless, indeed, an idiosyncrasy in my ordinary sleep may be looked upon as superinduced."
16070,Dreams are with us no more; but of these mysteries anon.
16071,"You are Number Two, and must look to yourself."
16072,"""Your generosity is boundless."
16073,"The riots, the combat, the massacre, were the actual events of the insurrection of Cheyte Sing, which took place in , when Hastings was put in imminent peril of his life."
16074,"I, however, who seemed to be a close friend of Balbutius, had disagreed with him; averring that I had studied deeply in the black forbidden lore, and that I believed the very old folk capable of visiting almost any nameless doom upon the town, which after all was a Roman settlement and contained a great number of our citizens."
16075,I panted to relieve this painful heart burning by some misdeed that should rouse him to a sense of my antipathy.
16076,"I moved toward the window and would have drawn aside the nondescript curtains, when with a frightened rage even greater than before the dumb lodger was upon me again; this time motioning with his head toward the door as he nervously strove to drag me thither with both hands."
16077,"Whither he has gone, I do not know; but I have gone home to the pure New England lanes up which fragrant sea winds sweep at evening."
16078,Upon due reflection I frankly admit the propriety of the explanation you suggest.
16079,"The father of Adrian yielded up the already broken sceptre of England; but I will rear the fallen plant, join its dismembered frame, and exalt it above all the flowers of the field."
16080,"This promise of a renewed lease of life turned rugged natures to melting tenderness, and by contrast filled the soft with harsh and unnatural sentiments."
16081,It lay in a remote turret of the building.
16082,Thus Novalis errs not in saying that 'we are near waking when we dream that we dream.'
16083,"Then they all sprang at him and tore him to pieces before my eyes, bearing the fragments away into that subterranean vault of fabulous abominations."
16084,"His day's work was sadly interrupted, and unless chance presently brought some rambler hither, he might have to remain all night or longer."
16085,The latter was pumped on them daily.
16086,"""Killin' sheep was kinder more fun but d'ye know, 'twan't quite satisfyin'."
16087,This was a reflection of a nature somewhat startling.
16088,"The box, whose fastenings were broken by the stroke which had unearthed it, contained many papers and objects of value; but I had eyes for one thing alone."
16089,"The next step is to advertise, after some such fashion as this, in the principal business six pennies of the city the pennies are eschewed as not ""respectable"" and as demanding payment for all advertisements in advance."
16090,Our conversation was necessarily limited.
16091,"I ordered her to bring my breakfast to my room, and was again left alone yet still I could make no resolve, but only thought that I might write a note to my father to beg his permission to pay a visit to a relation who lived about thirty miles off, and who had before invited me to her house, but I had refused for then I could not quit my suffering father."
16092,"In speaking of the air, I referred only to the earth; but the general proposition has reference to impulses upon the ether which, since it pervades, and alone pervades all space, is thus the great medium of creation."
16093,We experienced no more assaults; and by night and day we continued our labours unimpeded.
16094,"I must except, however, Wyatt and his sisters, who behaved stiffly, and, I could not help thinking, uncourteously to the rest of the party."
16095,Of their faces and forms I dare not speak in detail; for the mere remembrance makes me grow faint.
16096,In another column it was stated that no trace of the missing child Ladislas Wolejko had been found.
16097,"Far gone, was Obed . . ."
16098,"The two particulars in question are these: the arms on the golden locket about the creature's neck were the Jermyn arms, and the jocose suggestion of M. Verhaeren about a certain resemblance as connected with the shrivelled face applied with vivid, ghastly, and unnatural horror to none other than the sensitive Arthur Jermyn, great great great grandson of Sir Wade Jermyn and an unknown wife."
16099,"I cannot depart without your forgiveness and I must endeavour to gain it, or I must despair."
16100,"But since the murderer has been discovered "" ""The murderer discovered Good God how can that be? who could attempt to pursue him?"
16101,"But it was a hideous proof, because I knew from old papers that that watch had been buried with my great great great great grandfather in ."
16102,"For my part, I am by no means sure that a pumpkin pie a la Desoulieres would not have been very capital eating indeed"" ""You astonish me"" said I; and I looked inquisitively at Monsieur Maillard."
16103,"I read these words with devouring eyes; I kissed them, wept over them and exclaimed, ""He will love me"" My aunt would not undertake so long a journey, and in a fortnight we had another letter from my father, it was dated Edinburgh: he wrote that he should be with us in three days."
16104,But sleep did not afford me respite from thought and misery; my dreams presented a thousand objects that scared me.
16105,"""Perhaps so,"" said I; ""but, Legrand, I fear you are no artist."
16106,It is my firm intention to cut the shop.
16107,But in Clerval I saw the image of my former self; he was inquisitive and anxious to gain experience and instruction.
16108,At first these agonizing plaints filled me with intolerable compassion.
16109,I think I had a family then though the details are very uncertain and I know there were many servants.
16110,The news reached Felix and roused him from his dream of pleasure.
16111,"They ate plentifully of fruit and red berries, and marked not the passing of time, but many years must have slipped away."
16112,"I started up a knife was in my grasp; I made a plunge at his raised right arm, and inflicted a deep, wide wound in his hand."
16113,"And since we see clearly that the endowment of matter with vitality is a principle indeed, as far as our judgments extend, the leading principle in the operations of Deity, it is scarcely logical to imagine it confined to the regions of the minute, where we daily trace it, and not extending to those of the august."
16114,"He had seen so many customs and witnessed so great a variety of moral creeds that he had been obliged to form an independant one for himself which had no relation to the peculiar notions of any one country: his early prejudices of course influenced his judgement in the formation of his principles, and some raw colledge ideas were strangely mingled with the deepest deductions of his penetrating mind."
16115,"Such things, when they happen singly, affect only the immediate parties; but the prosperity of the nation was now shaken by frequent and extensive losses."
16116,"The description of the wings of the man bat, on page , is but a literal copy of Peter Wilkins' account of the wings of his flying islanders."
16117,"""His attempts at getting on have been mere abortions, and his circumgyratory proceedings a palpable failure."
16118,"Others, guided by this manuscript if it shall ever be found, must unfold the mysteries at which I can only hint."
16119,"Plainly visible across the intervening water on account of their enormous size, were an array of bas reliefs whose subjects would have excited the envy of a Doré."
16120,Many things I read surpassed my understanding and experience.
16121,"Certainly, the terror of a deserted house swells in geometrical rather than arithmetical progression as houses multiply to form a city of stark desolation."
16122,"She was freighted with cotton wool and oil, from the Lachadive islands."
16123,"If I were alone, would he not at times force his abhorred presence on me to remind me of my task or to contemplate its progress?"
16124,"In another instant, however, matters were reversed; for those murderous claws had locked themselves tightly around his own throat, while the wrinkled face was twisted with insane fury."
16125,"It was during an access of this kind that I suddenly left my home, and bending my steps towards the near Alpine valleys, sought in the magnificence, the eternity of such scenes, to forget myself and my ephemeral, because human, sorrows."
16126,You have loved me; I adored you.
16127,Gradually a calming of the wind and dispersal of the unusual darkness told of the storm's passing.
16128,Circumstances had called me to London; here I heard talk that symptoms of the plague had occurred in hospitals of that city.
16129,"We were no vulgar ghouls, but worked only under certain conditions of mood, landscape, environment, weather, season, and moonlight."
16130,"Often too, the voice to which all listened was suddenly silenced, the helping hand cold, the sympathetic eye closed, and the villagers feared still more the death that had selected a choice victim, shivering in dust the heart that had beat for them, reducing to incommunicable annihilation the mind for ever occupied with projects for their welfare."
16131,But the action produced an effect altogether unanticipated.
16132,"But this is a point, it appears, somewhat above or beneath the understanding of the Prefect."
16133,"When I had concluded my narration I said, ""This is the being whom I accuse and for whose seizure and punishment I call upon you to exert your whole power."
16134,"I heard of the slothful Asiatics, of the stupendous genius and mental activity of the Grecians, of the wars and wonderful virtue of the early Romans of their subsequent degenerating of the decline of that mighty empire, of chivalry, Christianity, and kings."
16135,"It was solely, therefore, on account of having been misinformed, that Mr. Bullet head found himself in Alex suppose we call it Nopolis, 'for short' but, as he did find himself there, he determined to keep up his character for obst for firmness, and remain."
16136,"I was glad to get out of that bus, and at once proceeded to check my valise in the shabby hotel lobby."
16137,Inspector Legrasse was scarcely prepared for the sensation which his offering created.
16138,"Flowers, the children of the spring, adorned her garden and casements; in the midst of lowliness there was an air of elegance which spoke the graceful taste of the inmate."
16139,"It's Man Fred, I say, and not at all by any means Man Friday."""
16140,"I approached the shore, my father held the boat, I leapt lightly out, and in a moment was in his arms."
16141,"I cherished hope, it is true, but it vanished when I beheld my person reflected in water or my shadow in the moonshine, even as that frail image and that inconstant shade."
16142,Am I not the most miserable worm that crawls?
16143,During the winter of officials of the Federal government made a strange and secret investigation of certain conditions in the ancient Massachusetts seaport of Innsmouth.
16144,"Its immense weight caused an unusually sharp grating sound, as it moved upon its hinges."
16145,"Those writers who have imagined a reign of peace and happiness on earth, have generally described a rural country, where each small township was directed by the elders and wise men."
16146,They were impatient and angry in the midst of terror.
16147,"When one of the things began to waddle and edge away, he turned quickly to stop it; so that the suddenness of his motion dislodged the waxen mask from what should have been his head."
16148,Perdita had permitted us to take Clara back with us to Windsor; and she and my two lovely infants were perpetual sources of interest and amusement.
16149,"Would to God that I had never beheld them, or that, having done so, I had died The shutting of a door disturbed me, and, looking up, I found that my cousin had departed from the chamber."
16150,"His nose remained buried in the mass of flesh which enveloped his round, full, and purple face; and his thick upper lip rested upon the still thicker one beneath with an air of complacent self satisfaction, much heightened by the owner's habit of licking them at intervals."
16151,"From fifteen to twenty, not a day passed in which he did not promise to cut me off with a shilling."
16152,"""Oh, oh, my Gawd, that haff face that haff face on top of it . . ."
16153,"He found the spectral gossip of the town much diminished, and it is indeed a fact that notwithstanding certain reports of a ghostly tittering in the deserted house which lasted almost as long as that edifice itself no fresh appearances either of old Keziah or of Brown Jenkin have been muttered of since Gilman's death."
16154,"When I say proficiency, I mean that perfection in the game which includes a comprehension of all the sources whence legitimate advantage may be derived."
16155,You say that you have lost Raymond.
16156,"Timidity, which in her had almost amounted to awkwardness, was exchanged for a graceful decision of manner; frankness, instead of reserve, characterized her physiognomy; and her voice was attuned to thrilling softness."
16157,"The man was a fool, you see."
16158,"My friend and I had both been educated in one school, or rather I was his pupil in the opinion, that steady adherence to principle was the only road to honour; a ceaseless observance of the laws of general utility, the only conscientious aim of human ambition."
16159,"Mebbe ye'd like to a ben me in them days, when I seed things at night aout to sea from the cupalo top o' my haouse."
16160,"I dug eagerly, and now and then caught myself actually looking, with something that very much resembled expectation, for the fancied treasure, the vision of which had demented my unfortunate companion."
16161,"I sympathized with and partly understood them, but I was unformed in mind; I was dependent on none and related to none."
16162,"The Italian believes it the voice of a Russian, but 'has never conversed with a native of Russia.'"
16163,"But the shadow was vague, and formless, and indefinite, and was the shadow neither of man nor of God neither God of Greece, nor God of Chaldaea, nor any Egyptian God."
16164,"He had been with me a fellow student at C University, where we were very much together."
16165,"While the rest of the company, in confused murmur, which grew louder and louder, gave voice to their many fears."
16166,The good people of Paris might have heard of me no more.
16167,"I saw when I staggered to my feet that the amorphous flute player had rolled out of sight, but that two of the beasts were patiently standing by."
16168,"The cold was intense, and obliged me to wrap up closely in an overcoat."
16169,"You know how wilful your poor, misery stricken sister is."
16170,"""In respect to the insinuations levelled at Beauvais, you will be willing to dismiss them in a breath."
16171,"""Two very decided failures, of late those of Mr. Henson and Sir George Cayley had much weakened the public interest in the subject of aerial navigation."
16172,"Yet when she died Nay, then I was not miserable."
16173,"Above all, I am known."
16174,For a long time he would eat nothing but thistles; but of this idea we soon cured him by insisting upon his eating nothing else.
16175,"Over two hours must have passed before I reached what seemed to be my goal, a venerable ivied castle in a thickly wooded park; maddeningly familiar, yet full of perplexing strangeness to me."
16176,He places his head upon the pillow.
16177,"It was the Yuletide, and I had come at last to the ancient sea town where my people had dwelt and kept festival in the elder time when festival was forbidden; where also they had commanded their sons to keep festival once every century, that the memory of primal secrets might not be forgotten."
16178,I say that these which are the laws of mesmerism in its general features it would be supererogation to demonstrate; nor shall I inflict upon my readers so needless a demonstration; to day.
16179,"Not that the spirit of each rapid passion failed, at any time, to throw its own distinct image upon the mirror of that face but that the mirror, mirror like, retained no vestige of the passion, when the passion had departed."
16180,"On one side I could view the entire city as it sloped from the plaza down to the old river bank; on the other side, in startling proximity, I was confronted by the richly ornate and perfectly preserved facade of a great building, evidently a temple, hollowed from the solid rock."
16181,ff ff ff FATHER FATHER YOG SOTHOTH . .
16182,"Our little town of Windsor, in which the survivors from the neighbouring counties were chiefly assembled, wore a melancholy aspect."
16183,Even De L'Omelette pronounced it bien comme il faut.
16184,"After uncovering the entire surface, which consisted of three immense granite slabs, we stepped back some distance to survey the charnel scene; and Warren appeared to make some mental calculations."
16185,"Heretofore we have been friends lovers let us not become enemies, mutual spies."
16186,"""And wherefore was it glorious?"
16187,"Whilst I had hitherto considered this but a natural attribute of a family of short lived men, I afterward pondered long upon these premature deaths, and began to connect them with the wanderings of the old man, who often spoke of a curse which for centuries had prevented the lives of the holders of my title from much exceeding the span of thirty two years."
16188,"Modern discoveries, indeed, in what may be termed ethical magnetism or magnetoesthetics, render it probable that the most natural, and, consequently, the truest and most intense of the human affections are those which arise in the heart as if by electric sympathy in a word, that the brightest and most enduring of the psychal fetters are those which are riveted by a glance."
16189,"In shutting up the box no particular order is observed, except that the folding doors are always closed before the drawer."
16190,With painful earnestness he questioned me concerning her prophecies with regard to him.
16191,"I went also to act in conformity with Adrian's plans, which was to congregate in masses what remained of the population; for he possessed the conviction that it was only through the benevolent and social virtues that any safety was to be hoped for the remnant of mankind."
16192,"And they were strange, because they had come as dark furtive folk from opiate southern gardens of orchids, and spoken another tongue before they learnt the tongue of the blue eyed fishers."
16193,It is of this loot in particular that I must not speak thank God I had the courage to destroy it long before I thought of destroying myself.
16194,Most assuredly we must not refer the unlife like appearances to inability for all the rest of Maelzel's automata are evidence of his full ability to copy the motions and peculiarities of life with the most wonderful exactitude.
16195,"Years of the Titans were recalled, but the host grew timid when he spoke of the dim first age of chaos before the gods or even the Elder Ones were born, and when only the other gods came to dance on the peak of Hatheg Kla in the stony desert near Ulthar, beyond the river Skai."
16196,"He could distinguish no words, yet the tone was haunting and unmistakable."
16197,"This is probably true, but I have no distinct memory of it."
16198,It had divided the serge of the robe.
16199,"""Do not let this letter disturb you; do not answer tomorrow, or the next day, or even until you come, if it will give you pain."
16200,"Legrasse for some time lent the image to Professor Webb, but at the latter's death it was returned to him and remains in his possession, where I viewed it not long ago."
16201,"I cannot tell you how he shrieked, or what vistas of unvisitable hells gleamed for a second in black eyes crazed with fright."
16202,"When I adverted to the question of their entire separation, she replied: ""Be it so One day the period will arrive; I know it, and feel it."
16203,"Under cover of the widely projecting eave these steps gave access to a door leading to the garret, or rather loft for it was lighted only by a single window to the north, and seemed to have been intended as a store room."
16204,"Its whole interior is apparently filled with wheels, pinions, levers, and other machinery, crowded very closely together, so that the eye can penetrate but a little distance into the mass."
16205,In the lower ends of these tubes are holes in which the pivots of the axis revolve.
16206,"And even far more than this, in remedy of the defective composition, each insulated member of the fraternity will suggest the identical emendation."
16207,They clung with eagerness to the hope held out that he might yet be alive.
16208,"had he not skimmed over Père Le Brun? was he not a member of the Club Vingt un? ""Si je perds,"" said he, ""je serai deux fois perdu I shall be doubly dammed voilà tout Here his Grace shrugged his shoulders."
16209,"He had been flushed and excited then, talking in a high and unnatural, though always pedantic, voice."
16210,"These pastimes were to us the most exquisite form of aesthetic expression, and we gave their details a fastidious technical care."
16211,"With the passage of time he became almost glad he had lingered, for his relics of youth and his cleavage from the world made life and sophistication seem very distant and unreal; so much so that a touch of magic and expectancy stole back into his nightly slumbers."
16212,"They found me at dawn wandering mindless near Ballylough, but what unhinged me utterly was not any of the horrors I had seen or heard before."
16213,This was a lesson which I took desperately to heart.
16214,Could it be that the dream soul inhabiting this inferior body was desperately struggling to speak things which the simple and halting tongue of dulness could not utter?
16215,"I was utterly astounded; and, for a moment, was quite at a loss what to do."
16216,I entered the cabin where lay the remains of my ill fated and admirable friend.
16217,"It then stopped, the page descended and opened the door, the lady alighted, and presented a petition to her sovereign."
16218,Elizabeth seemed happy; my tranquil demeanour contributed greatly to calm her mind.
16219,"She awaited with eagerness the return of her messenger from the palace; she listened insatiate to his account of each word, each look of the Protector; she felt bliss in this communication with her beloved, although he knew not to whom he addressed his instructions."
16220,"Of the fate of that cohort no record exists, but the town at least was saved for encyclopædias tell of the survival of Pompelo to this day, under the modern Spanish name of Pompelona. . . ."
16221,"Now, brought to this conclusion in so unequivocal a manner as we are, it is not our part, as reasoners, to reject it on account of apparent impossibilities."
16222,"Not so Idris; her first glance was for her brother; she took his hand, she kissed his eye lids, and hung over him with looks of compassion and love."
16223,"""The winter advanced, and an entire revolution of the seasons had taken place since I awoke into life."
16224,"""My son,"" said he, when we were seated, ""what is the chief end of your existence?"""
16225,"It is, nevertheless, amusing to observe that L'Etoile insists upon its point in the full belief of its furthering its general argument."
16226,Madame L'Espanaye and her daughter lived an exceedingly retired life saw no company seldom went out had little use for numerous changes of habiliment.
16227,"Sometimes I entreated my attendants to assist me in the destruction of the fiend by whom I was tormented; and at others I felt the fingers of the monster already grasping my neck, and screamed aloud with agony and terror."
16228,"""To my task,"" she continued mentally, ""my guests must not perceive the reality, either as it regards him or me."
16229,"Captain Barclay, who walked against Time, would not walk against him."
16230,"All I could do was to turn on the waning searchlight of the U , and with its aid walk up the temple steps and study the exterior carvings."
16231,"This latter print endeavors to combat that portion of the paragraph which has reference to 'drowned bodies' only, by citing some five or six instances in which the bodies of individuals known to be drowned were found floating after the lapse of less time than is insisted upon by L'Etoile."
16232,"The heart sickened at the variety of misery presented; and, when I saw a specimen of this gloomy change, my soul ached with the fear of what might befall my beloved Idris and my babes."
16233,"Perdita, wedded to an imagination, careless of what is behind the veil, whose charactery is in truth faulty and vile, Perdita has renounced me."
16234,"From his inscrutable tyranny did I at length flee, panic stricken, as from a pestilence; and to the very ends of the earth I fled in vain."
16235,"The small garrisons were drawn from the various towns and fortresses, and went to swell the main army."
16236,"Death, which had in our younger days walked the earth like ""a thief that comes in the night,"" now, rising from his subterranean vault, girt with power, with dark banner floating, came a conqueror."
16237,"The thought of nature still remained, but her character seemed to have undergone modification, there was a weird symmetry, a thrilling uniformity, a wizard propriety in these her works."
16238,"Nevertheless, what could be seen was of a nature singular and exciting."
16239,At early dawn the vessel was discovered bearing in shore; it was conjectured that it would cast anchor about five miles from land.
16240,"I would have them allow what they cannot refrain from allowing that, although temptation may have erewhile existed as great, man was never thus, at least, tempted before certainly, never thus fell."
16241,"One or two strokes of a spade upturned the blade of a large Spanish knife, and, as we dug farther, three or four loose pieces of gold and silver coin came to light."
16242,"He bore aloft a drawn dagger, and had approached, in rapid impetuosity, to within three or four feet of the retreating figure, when the latter, having attained the extremity of the velvet apartment, turned suddenly and confronted his pursuer."
16243,"The room was decorated with the busts of many of them, and he described their characters to me."
16244,"In its exercise I found a wild delight yet a delight still physical, inasmuch as the understanding had in it no part."
16245,Don't believe it don't believe a word of it.
16246,"Why when fate drove me to become this outcast from human feeling; this monster with whom none might mingle in converse and love; why had she not from that fatal and most accursed moment, shrouded me in thick mists and placed real darkness between me and my fellows so that I might never more be seen?, sic and as I passed, like a murky cloud loaded with blight, they might only perceive me by the cold chill I should cast upon them; telling them, how truly, that something unholy was near?"
16247,"And Kuranes saw that he need not tremble lest the things he knew be vanished; for even the sentries on the ramparts were the same, and still as young as he remembered them."
16248,"""In that point he is unrivalled indeed he is a perfect desperado a down right fire eater, and no mistake,"" said my friend, here dropping his voice excessively low, and thrilling me with the mystery of his tone."
16249,"The next day Blandot gave me a more expensive room on the third floor, between the apartments of an aged money lender and the room of a respectable upholsterer."
16250,"The shade of the trees fell heavily upon the water, and seemed to bury itself therein, impregnating the depths of the element with darkness."
16251,"As we heard this suggestion of baying we shuddered, remembering the tales of the peasantry; for he whom we sought had centuries before been found in this selfsame spot, torn and mangled by the claws and teeth of some unspeakable beast."
16252,"Indeed what gentleman or lady either of sense, wouldn't die, I should like to know, for a well fattened capon of the right Molucca breed, stuffed with capers and mushrooms, and served up in a salad bowl, with orange jellies en mosaiques."
16253,"Neither grief, philosophy, nor love could make Perdita think with mildness of the dereliction of Raymond."
16254,"What fiend spoke from the recesses of my soul, when amid those dim aisles, and in the silence of the night, I whispered within the ears of the holy man the syllables Morella?"
16255,"ye swilled yourselves sick, curse ye, and ye must needs blame the squire let go, you Unhand that latch I've naught for ye here "" At this point three slow and very deliberate raps shook the panels of the door, and a white foam gathered at the mouth of the frantic magician."
16256,"We proceed now with the journal, as transcribed by Mr. Forsyth from the joint MSS."
16257,I thought of huge rats and shuddered.
16258,"The birth of her daughter, embryo copy of her Raymond, filled up the measure of her content, and produced a sacred and indissoluble tie between them."
16259,God knows what I expected to find I only felt that I was digging in the grave of a man whose ghost stalked by night.
16260,"I saw unhappiness deeply impressed on his countenance, but he endeavoured to welcome me cheerfully; and, after we had exchanged our mournful greeting, would have introduced some other topic than that of our disaster, had not Ernest exclaimed, ""Good God, papa Victor says that he knows who was the murderer of poor William."""
16261,"A smoky mist, resembling that of the Indian summer, enveloped all things, and of course, added to my uncertainty."
16262,"A shudder like the swift passing of an electric shock ran through the house, when Rosse exclaimed, in answer to ""Stands Scotland where it did?"""
16263,"It would be trite and not wholly accurate to say that no human pen could describe it, but one may properly say that it could not be vividly visualised by anyone whose ideas of aspect and contour are too closely bound up with the common life forms of this planet and of the three known dimensions."
16264,"The mind flags beneath the weight of thought, and droops in the heartless intercourse of those whose sole aim is amusement."
16265,"Although they spent much time together at Windsor, the extreme youth of Adrian prevented any suspicion as to the nature of their intercourse."
16266,"The clouds become thin; an arch is formed for ever rising upwards, till, the universal cope being unveiled, the sun pours forth its rays, re animated and fed by the breeze."
16267,"The clock strikes Unable to restrain his feelings, his Grace swallows an olive."
16268,"As I turned, I dreaded what I was to see; for the scream had been in my uncle's voice, and I knew not against what menace I should have to defend him and myself."
16269,"Found in a Bottle,"" was originally published in , and it was not until many years afterwards that I became acquainted with the maps of Mercator, in which the ocean is represented as rushing, by four mouths, into the northern Polar Gulf, to be absorbed into the bowels of the earth; the Pole itself being represented by a black rock, towering to a prodigious height."
16270,"This thicket, although dense, was in the close vicinity of a public road."
16271,"The exhibiter now proceeds to open the drawer which lies beneath the cupboards at the bottom of the box for although there are apparently two drawers, there is really only one the two handles and two key holes being intended merely for ornament."
16272,"F Spencer's Faery Queen Book Canto CHAPTER XII As I was perpetually haunted by these ideas, you may imagine that the influence of Woodville's words was very temporary; and that although I did not again accuse him of unkindness, yet I soon became as unhappy as before."
16273,"He would not only have fled from the wharf, but he would not have permitted the boat to remain."
16274,"This city had remained faithful to him, after the whole nation had forsaken his cause to join the standard of Parliament and liberty."
16275,"You will here bear in mind that the arguments urged against the thicket as the scene, are applicable in chief part, only against it as the scene of an outrage committed by more than a single individual."
16276,"Each day was eagerly counted; and the inhabitants of towns, desirous to leap this dangerous interval, plunged into dissipation, and strove, by riot, and what they wished to imagine to be pleasure, to banish thought and opiate despair."
16277,"I began with light hand and gentle allurement; first exciting her curiosity, and then satisfying it in such a way as might occasion her, at the same time that she half forgot her sorrows in occupation, to find in the hours that succeeded a reaction of benevolence and toleration."
16278,"Now, Eliot, I'm what the man in the street would call fairly ""hard boiled"", but I'll confess that what I saw on the walls of that room gave me a bad turn."
16279,He told the crowd that the men were evidently trying to get to a subordinate peak which overlooked the swath at a point considerably ahead of where the shrubbery was now bending.
16280,"Matter it seemed not to be, nor ether, nor anything else conceivable by mortal mind."
16281,A strange odor loaded the breeze.
16282,"We descended from Parnassus, emerging from its many folds, and passed through Livadia on our road to Attica."
16283,"They were these: Lo 'tis a gala night Within the lonesome latter years An angel throng, bewinged, bedight In veils, and drowned in tears, Sit in a theatre, to see A play of hopes and fears, While the orchestra breathes fitfully The music of the spheres."
16284,"I paused again, and this time I made bold to seize Fortunato by an arm above the elbow."
16285,"She had at first yielded to our entreaties, but when she heard that the life of her favourite was menaced, she could no longer control her anxiety."
16286,"Yet was she woman, and pined away daily."
16287,"Forbidding me to touch the body, he first injected a drug in the wrist just beside the place his needle had punctured when injecting the embalming compound."
16288,"The teeth the teeth they were here, and there, and everywhere, and visibly and palpably before me; long, narrow, and excessively white, with the pale lips writhing about them, as in the very moment of their first terrible development."
16289,"That it was merely a gigantic piece of stone, I soon assured myself; but I was conscious of a distinct impression that its contour and position were not altogether the work of Nature."
16290,"The sun sank beneath the horizon as we landed, and as I touched the shore I felt those cares and fears revive which soon were to clasp me and cling to me forever."
16291,"The valet at once fell into the rear, and now, with hearts full to overflowing, we discoursed long and unreservedly of our love."
16292,"It was a melancholy thing to return to this spot so dear to us, as the scene of a happiness rarely before enjoyed, here to mark the extinction of our species, and trace the deep uneraseable footsteps of disease over the fertile and cherished soil."
16293,shaoutin' in Ol' Squar an' Taown Squar an' New Church Green . . .
16294,"Our museum was a blasphemous, unthinkable place, where with the satanic taste of neurotic virtuosi we had assembled an universe of terror and decay to excite our jaded sensibilities."
16295,"She had set down no rule of conduct for herself; but for her life she could not have opposed his slightest wish, or do other than acquiesce cheerfully in all his projects."
16296,"My place of refuge was constructed of wood, but so low that I could with difficulty sit upright in it."
16297,"It is likely that he felt only vexation when, in , the town council ordered him to fumigate the place with sulphur, tar, and gum camphor on account of the much discussed deaths of four persons, presumably caused by the then diminishing fever epidemic."
16298,"The wind arose; the sea roared; and, as with the mighty shock of an earthquake, it split and cracked with a tremendous and overwhelming sound."
16299,Why is it folly to suppose that the murder was committed at any given period of the day?
16300,"Considering this topography, we had finally concluded that the daemon must have come by way of Cone Mountain, a wooded southern prolongation of which ran to within a short distance of the westernmost spur of Tempest Mountain."
16301,"There was a primness, not to say stiffness, in his carriage a degree of measured, and, if I may so express it, of rectangular precision, attending his every movement, which, observed in a more diminutive figure, would have had the least little savor in the world, of affectation, pomposity or constraint, but which noticed in a gentleman of his undoubted dimensions, was readily placed to the account of reserve, hauteur of a commendable sense, in short, of what is due to the dignity of colossal proportion."
16302,"Or, when the dun clouds thickly veil the sky, while exhaustless stores of rain are poured down, until, the dank earth refusing to imbibe the superabundant moisture, it lies in pools on the surface; when the torch of day seems like a meteor, to be quenched; who has not seen the cloud stirring north arise, the streaked blue appear, and soon an opening made in the vapours in the eye of the wind, through which the bright azure shines?"
16303,From the manner of gathering up a trick he judges whether the person taking it can make another in the suit.
16304,"What deep and sacred emotions are excited in a father's bosom, when he first becomes convinced that his love for his child is not a mere instinct, but worthily bestowed, and that others, less akin, participate his approbation It was supreme happiness to Idris and myself, to find that the frankness which Alfred's open brow indicated, the intelligence of his eyes, the tempered sensibility of his tones, were not delusions, but indications of talents and virtues, which would ""grow with his growth, and strengthen with his strength."""
16305,"This year the horror was very great, for the people knew that the wrath of the very old folk was upon Pompelo."
16306,"God rest them, if there be any rest in the universe."
16307,"I must not permit you to be acquainted with the extent of my delusion, lest you despise me; although, believe me, a wish to appear before you, not vanquished, but as a conqueror, inspired me during my wordy war."""
16308,"There is talk of apportioning Randolph Carter's estate among his heirs, but I shall stand firmly against this course because I do not believe he is dead."
16309,"Shaking pathetically, the old man forced me into a chair whilst he sank into another, beside which his viol and bow lay carelessly on the floor."
16310,But I am not wholly sorry; either for this or for the loss in undreamable abysses of the closely written sheets which alone could have explained the music of Erich Zann.
16311,"These speculations were rife among us; yet not the less we proceeded in our daily occupations, and our plans, whose accomplishment demanded the lapse of many years."
16312,"I must get away from evil shadowed Innsmouth and accordingly I began to test my cramped, wearied powers of locomotion."
16313,"Hypocritical fiend If he whom you mourn still lived, still would he be the object, again would he become the prey, of your accursed vengeance."
16314,"Beyond these things he seemed to know nothing, nor could the expert questioning of his interrogators bring out a single additional fact."
16315,"Look here, do you know the whole North End once had a set of tunnels that kept certain people in touch with each other's houses, and the burying ground, and the sea?"
16316,"Tears also gushed from the eyes of Clerval, as he read the account of my misfortune."
16317,"But these gave place to a heavy swell; I felt sick and hardly able to hold the rudder, when suddenly I saw a line of high land towards the south."
16318,"But the under surfaces of the huge masses of agitated vapor, as well as all terrestrial objects immediately around us, were glowing in the unnatural light of a faintly luminous and distinctly visible gaseous exhalation which hung about and enshrouded the mansion."
16319,"I knew that he had been lying awake ever since the first slight noise, when he had turned in the bed."
16320,"Aries Tottle's mode, in a word, was based on noumena; Hog's on phenomena."
16321,It was in the newspaper that she saw the advertisement for the design for a national gallery.
16322,The canoe falls into the lesser channel and approaches the gate.
16323,"Will you think of Raymond less at Windsor, the scene of your early happiness?"
16324,"Subsequently many went to visit Kalos, and indeed noticed the pallor of his face; but there was about him a happy serenity which made his glance more magical than the glance of Musides who was clearly distracted with anxiety, and who pushed aside all the slaves in his eagerness to feed and wait upon his friend with his own hands."
16325,"And at last I resolved to scale that tower, fall though I might; since it were better to glimpse the sky and perish, than to live without ever beholding day."
16326,"That she did meet some companion, and proceed with him across the river, reaching the Barrière du Roule at so late an hour as three o'clock in the afternoon, is known."
16327,"""Well, here's yer stuff,"" announced Sheehan jovially as a tray of bottles and glasses was wheeled into the room."
16328,"""I fear that I speak in a constrained manner: my heart is overflowing with the ardent desire I have of bringing calm once more to your thoughts and looks; but I fear to aggravate your grief, or to raise that in you which is death to me, anger and distaste."
16329,His wisdom guided all.
16330,"Raymond staggered forth from this scene, as a man might do, who had been just put to the torture, and looked forward to when it would be again inflicted."
16331,Mr. Czanek did not like to wait so long in the dark in such a place.
16332,"And methinks, sweet Una, even our slumbering sense of the forced and of the far fetched might have arrested us here."
16333,"His mind was not Prussian, but given to imaginings and speculations which have no value."
16334,"Raymond saw the danger; he was willing to save his troops from the crime of disobedience; for he knew, that contention once begun between the commander and his army, each act and word added to the weakness of the former, and bestowed power on the latter."
16335,"Travelling on land has been repeatedly accomplished at the rate of thirty miles per hour, and indeed a much greater speed may be anticipated."
16336,"To the right of this compartment, however, that is to say the spectators' right a small division, six inches wide, and filled with machinery, is partitioned off."
16337,Then a strong desire to lapse into insensibility.
16338,To the right arise a chain of lofty hills rudely and luxuriantly wooded.
16339,"I was galled, too, by the rumor touching a relationship, which had grown current in the upper forms."
16340,"Kadath in the cold waste hath known Them, and what man knows Kadath?"
16341,"Moreover, he had in the past secretly studied the theory of reanimation to some extent under West."
16342,"As I mentioned the word ""remuneration,"" Mr. Crab first opened his eyes, and then his mouth, to quite a remarkable extent; causing his personal appearance to resemble that of a highly agitated elderly duck in the act of quacking; and in this condition he remained, ever and anon pressing his hands tightly to his forehead, as if in a state of desperate bewilderment until I had nearly made an end of what I had to say."
16343,"In this, I succeeded to a miracle; and to every question or suggestion found myself at liberty to reply in my most frog like and sepulchral tones with some passage from the tragedy any portion of which, as I soon took great pleasure in observing, would apply equally well to any particular subject."
16344,"The rudder is now at the barge office."""
16345,"Their social contacts grew fewer and fewer, till at last they took to intermarrying with the numerous menial class about the estate."
16346,"What is true of relation of form and quantity is often grossly false in regard to morals, for example."
16347,"Would it be a rash wager a wager of one thousand to one that a day never passed over the heads of these boys without finding at least one of them ensconced in the umbrageous hall, and enthroned upon its natural throne?"
16348,And before Goya you have to go back to the mediaeval chaps who did the gargoyles and chimaeras on Notre Dame and Mont Saint Michel.
16349,"In his dream he had heard a scratching and gnawing in the partitions, and thought that someone fumbled clumsily at the latch."
16350,"Such is human nature, that beauty and deformity are often closely linked."
16351,"Yet, although unhappy, he is not so utterly occupied by his own misery but that he interests himself deeply in the projects of others."
16352,"Thus, ordinarily, should it have appeared, only after long pressure from Azrael's hand."
16353,"Horrible beyond conception was the change which had taken place in my best friend, Crawford Tillinghast."
16354,Let him take them back; without his love they are nothing to me.
16355,"Twenty years afterward, the two returned to France, in the persuasion that time had so greatly altered the lady's appearance that her friends would be unable to recognize her."
16356,The articles found in the thicket were fully identified by the relatives of Marie.
16357,"The living man was clutching a horrible stone idol of unknown origin, about a foot in height, regarding whose nature authorities at Sydney University, the Royal Society, and the Museum in College Street all profess complete bafflement, and which the survivor says he found in the cabin of the yacht, in a small carved shrine of common pattern."
16358,"If I say that my somewhat extravagant imagination yielded simultaneous pictures of an octopus, a dragon, and a human caricature, I shall not be unfaithful to the spirit of the thing."
16359,"""Walakea he shewed Obed a lot o' rites an' incantations as had to do with the sea things, an' let him see some o' the folks in the village as had changed a lot from human shape."
16360,"It must, it shall be undertaken to day, and yet we put it off until to morrow, and why?"
16361,I will proceed with my tale.
16362,In history of these regions I met with a ray from the Future.
16363,"On this occasion a man of great research in natural philosophy was with us, and excited by this catastrophe, he entered on the explanation of a theory which he had formed on the subject of electricity and galvanism, which was at once new and astonishing to me."
16364,Her voice was musical but unlike that of either of my friends.
16365,"By the time that it wanted only three minutes to noon, the droll object in question was perceived to be a very diminutive foreign looking young man."
16366,"""Hey, yew, why dun't ye say somethin'?"
16367,"This is the idea of a man long resident in Paris a public man and one whose walks to and fro in the city, have been mostly limited to the vicinity of the public offices."
16368,"Yes, it was of Death I spoke."
16369,"The very idea was generous and noble, but, beyond this, his unpretending manner, his entire want of the assumption of a virtue, rendered his act ten times more touching."
16370,"The cottage of my protectors had been the only school in which I had studied human nature, but this book developed new and mightier scenes of action."
16371,"You can blast my other passions, but revenge remains revenge, henceforth dearer than light or food I may die, but first you, my tyrant and tormentor, shall curse the sun that gazes on your misery."
16372,"Thou wast curiously scented, and labelled as per invoice."
16373,"""The whole of this paragraph must now appear a tissue of inconsequence and incoherence."
16374,"When he had gone, my friend entered into some explanations."
16375,"From the top of the mound, I looked far round all was silent and deserted."
16376,"For many months Woodville had in vain endeavoured to cast off this terrible remembrance; it still hung on him untill memory was too great a burthen for his loaded soul, but when on horseback the spell that seemingly held him to this idea was snapt; then if he thought of his lost bride he pictured her radiant in beauty; he could hear her voice, and fancy her ""a sylvan Huntress by his side,"" while his eyes brightened as he thought he gazed on her cherished form."
16377,"Here, after encircling the tree, it passed on a little to the north of east, leaving the tulip tree some twenty feet to the south, and making no decided alteration in its course until it came near the midway between the eastern and western boundaries of the valley."
16378,"It was a child singing a merry, lightsome air; there was no other sound."
16379,"Little attention had been paid to the decora of what is technically called keeping, or to the proprieties of nationality."
16380,"It was long before he was restored, and I often thought that life was entirely extinct."
16381,"Mothers, kiss you last husbands, protectors no more, lead on the partners of your death Come, O come while the dear ones are yet in sight, for soon they will pass away, and we never never shall join them more."""
16382,"A robin red breast dropt from the frosty branches of the trees, upon the congealed rivulet; its panting breast and half closed eyes shewed that it was dying: a hawk appeared in the air; sudden fear seized the little creature; it exerted its last strength, throwing itself on its back, raising its talons in impotent defence against its powerful enemy."
16383,"This brings about a training of birds, to serve the purpose of carrier pigeons between them."
16384,"Yet I must cling to it; perhaps it will kill me soon, and thus perform a thankful office."""
16385,The fear of so mighty a calamity as the loss of our adored infant made the current of my blood pause with chilly horror; but the remembrance of the mother restored my presence of mind.
16386,"He submitted to be away from her, because she commanded this submission; but for her influence, he would have declared his attachment before all England, and resisted, with unshaken constancy, his mother's opposition."
16387,"There was only one bedstead; and from this the bed had been removed, and thrown into the middle of the floor."
16388,"Memory brought madness with it, and when I thought of what had passed, a real insanity possessed me; sometimes I was furious and burnt with rage, sometimes low and despondent."
16389,"I looked round on the audience; the females were mostly of the lower classes, but the men were of all ranks, come hither to forget awhile the protracted scenes of wretchedness, which awaited them at their miserable homes."
16390,"The wind fanned the fire, and the cottage was quickly enveloped by the flames, which clung to it and licked it with their forked and destroying tongues."
16391,"The tracks on the flooring were certainly vastly unlike the average prints of a rat, but even Choynski and Desrochers would not admit that they were like the prints of four tiny human hands."
16392,"You have been tutored and refined by books and retirement from the world, and you are therefore somewhat fastidious; but this only renders you the more fit to appreciate the extraordinary merits of this wonderful man."
16393,"He was now all love, all softness; and when I raised my eyes in wonder at him as he spoke the smile on his lips told me that his heart was possessed by the gentlest passions."
16394,"An ample estate was allotted to them, and they took the first rank among the peers of Great Britain."
16395,"In the meantime, it was observed by all on board, that he avoided her in the most pointed manner, and, for the most part, shut himself up alone in his state room, where, in fact, he might have been said to live altogether, leaving his wife at full liberty to amuse herself as she thought best, in the public society of the main cabin."
16396,"Glancing upward at the clock on the mantel piece, for I felt too drowsy to take out my watch, I had the pleasure to find that I had still twenty five minutes to spare."
16397,"Earl Sawyer now took the telescope and reported the three figures as standing on the topmost ridge, virtually level with the altar stone but at a considerable distance from it."
16398,"I wished for no friend, no sympathy."
16399,"Here your countenance brightened up, and, perceiving your lips move, I could not doubt that you murmured the word 'stereotomy,' a term very affectedly applied to this species of pavement."
16400,"To my mind rushed fragments of a passage in Joseph Glanvill which has quoted with tremendous effect "" the vastness, profundity, and unsearchableness of His works, which have a depth in them greater than the well of Democritus."""
16401,"That cult would never die till the stars came right again, and the secret priests would take great Cthulhu from His tomb to revive His subjects and resume His rule of earth."
16402,"And when the development of her understanding disclosed the true nature of this intercourse to her, her affections were already engaged to her friend, and all she feared was lest other attractions and fickleness might make him break his infant vows."
16403,"The result of decomposition is the generation of gas, distending the cellular tissues and all the cavities, and giving the puffed appearance which is so horrible."
16404,"His countenance, I thought, wore a mingled expression of low cunning and perplexity."
16405,"At the first dawn of the morning we closed all the messy shutters of our old building; lighting a couple of tapers which, strongly perfumed, threw out only the ghastliest and feeblest of rays."
16406,"He never sported, but spent hours in watching the tribes of lovely and almost tame animals with which it was stocked, and ordered that greater care should be taken of them than ever."
16407,In the mean time Raymond was eloquent.
16408,"There are scoundrels in this world, I remembered with a sigh, who will not scruple to take unfair opportunities with even a next door neighbor, and this remark is from Epictetus it is precisely at that time when men are most anxious to throw off the burden of their own calamities that they feel the least desirous of relieving them in others."
16409,With his permission my mother prevailed on her rustic guardians to yield their charge to her.
16410,"""And those who do not work for posterity; or working, as may be my case, will not be known by it; yet they, believe me, have also their duties."
16411,"Advance avail thyself of the gift, thou and thy comrades; and in the drama you are about to act, do not disgrace those who taught you to enter on the stage, and to pronounce becomingly the parts assigned to you May your progress be uninterrupted and secure; born during the spring tide of the hopes of man, may you lead up the summer to which no winter may succeed See an ingenious Essay, entitled, ""The Mythological Astronomy of the Ancients Demonstrated,"" by Mackey, a shoemaker, of Norwich printed in ."
16412,"""Looking beyond these words, for a short distance, we again see the combination;, and employ it by way of termination to what immediately precedes."
16413,But upon this subject I cannot bear to dilate.
16414,"I no longer despair, but look on all around me with placid affection."
16415,"Upon the capture of Pavia by Charlemagne in , the skull was seized from the tottering Desiderius and carried in the train of the Frankish conqueror."
16416,"All in vain; because Death, in approaching him had stalked with his black shadow before him, and enveloped the victim."
16417,"""Who pe you,"" he asked, ""und what der teuffel you pe do dare?"""
16418,"Members of the Royal Anthropological Institute burned the thing and threw the locket into a well, and some of them do not admit that Arthur Jermyn ever existed."
16419,"""The poem over the signature 'Snob' is, we find, attracting universal commendation, and, we are constrained to say, deserves, if possible, even more applause than it has received."
16420,"""Yes have changed very much, as you see"" chimed in the whole company at once."
16421,"While I spoke, there came a marked change over the countenance of the sleep waker."
16422,"Have not actors wept, as they pourtrayed imagined passion?"
16423,"Te angel ab not te wing, and I am te Angel ov te Odd."" ""And your business with me at present is is"" ""My pizzness"" ejaculated the thing, ""vy vat a low bred buppy you mos pe vor to ask a gentleman und an angel apout his pizziness"" This language was rather more than I could bear, even from an angel; so, plucking up courage, I seized a salt cellar which lay within reach, and hurled it at the head of the intruder."
16424,"But the haughty Ex Queen thought as Octavius Caesar and Mark Antony, We could not stall together In the whole world."
16425,"It was a low, dull, quick sound much such a sound as a watch makes when enveloped in cotton."
16426,"As consciousness departed he heard the faint, shrill tittering of the fanged, rat like abnormality."
16427,It was not to be borne.
16428,"""During the ensuing days, while the preparations were going forward for the escape of the merchant, the zeal of Felix was warmed by several letters that he received from this lovely girl, who found means to express her thoughts in the language of her lover by the aid of an old man, a servant of her father who understood French."
16429,"In cloud ships the gods are wont to travel, and wise cotters have legends that keep them from certain high peaks at night when it is cloudy, for the gods are not lenient as of old."
16430,"The late setting of the moon, and the extreme caution I was obliged to use in this my third expedition, consumed so much time, that something like a qualm of fear came over me when I perceived dark night yield to twilight."
16431,"I know suthin' awful's abaout, an' feel my time is nigh, though only Gawd knows jest what it is."
16432,"Christchurch Cemetery was the scene of a terrible killing; a watchman having been clawed to death in a manner not only too hideous for description, but raising a doubt as to the human agency of the deed."
16433,"At another, I resolved to dig a grave for it in the floor of the cellar."
16434,"I as yet suffered no bodily inconvenience, breathing with great freedom, and feeling no pain whatever in the head."
16435,"Having found the wine, I recrossed the chamber, and poured out a gobletful, which I held to the lips of the fainting lady."
16436,"When we arrived at Kishan, we learnt, that on hearing of the advance of Lord Raymond and his detachment, the Turkish army had retreated from Rodosto; but meeting with a reinforcement, they had re trod their steps."
16437,"He could have endured poverty, and while this distress had been the meed of his virtue, he gloried in it; but the ingratitude of the Turk and the loss of his beloved Safie were misfortunes more bitter and irreparable."
16438,"But he could not play to another his weird harmonies, and could not bear hearing them from another; nor could he bear having anything in his room touched by another."
16439,It would help my shaky nerves if I could dismiss what I now have to think of the air and the sky about and above me.
16440,The notes in question were those descriptive of the dreams of various persons covering the same period as that in which young Wilcox had had his strange visitations.
16441,"I quitted my seat, and walked on, although the darkness and storm increased every minute, and the thunder burst with a terrific crash over my head."
16442,"""How was it possible,"" I asked, ""that you should know the man to be a sailor, and belonging to a Maltese vessel?"" ""I do not know it,"" said Dupin."
16443,"Had it not been for my old servant Hiram, I should have by this time become quite convinced of my madness."
16444,"Lights now appeared to guide us; and a long suite of splendid rooms illuminated, made us still more wonder."
16445,Raymond's eyes were fixed on the city.
16446,I have described myself as always having been imbued with a fervent longing to penetrate the secrets of nature.
16447,"We were told this when young, and taught to look forward to it as an event that would certainly take place."
16448,"In general, there is no alternative but experiment directed by probabilities of every tongue known to him who attempts the solution, until the true one be attained."
16449,"""Well, a kid then pretty much the same thing."""
16450,"This building stood on the steep river bluff near a bridge and an open confluence of streets which I took to be the earliest civic centre, displaced after the Revolution by the present Town Square."
16451,"I tell you I am on the very verge of insanity; why, cruel girl, do you drive me on: you will repent and I shall die."""
16452,"But evil things, in robes of sorrow, Assailed the monarch's high estate; Ah, let us mourn, for never morrow Shall dawn upon him, desolate And, round about his home, the glory That blushed and bloomed Is but a dim remembered story Of the old time entombed."
16453,"But, for myself, the Earth's records had taught me to look for widest ruin as the price of highest civilization."
16454,"His eyes, vacant in expression, regarded only the wall."
16455,"A snowy white and gauze like drapery seemed to be nearly the sole covering to her delicate form; but the mid summer and midnight air was hot, sullen, and still, and no motion in the statue like form itself, stirred even the folds of that raiment of very vapor which hung around it as the heavy marble hangs around the Niobe."
16456,"Her mild eyes seemed incapable of any severity or guile, and yet she has committed a murder."""
16457,"In the matter of eyes, also, my acquaintance was pre eminently endowed."
16458,"You will, therefore, please your majesty, be so good as to take the will for the deed for by no manner of means either can I or will I swallow another drop least of all a drop of that villainous bilge water that answers to the hall of 'Black Strap.'"""
16459,A marked sensation immediately ensued.
16460,"Those in the rear were always closed, with the exception of the large back room, fourth story."
16461,"And nearest of all was the graveyard, where deformed trees tossed insane branches as their roots displaced unhallowed slabs and sucked venom from what lay below."
16462,"Raymond was ten years older; to his previous beauty, noble mien, and commanding aspect, he now added gentlest benevolence, winning tenderness, graceful and unwearied attention to the wishes of another."
16463,"There were no horses to be procured, and I must return by the lake; but the wind was unfavourable, and the rain fell in torrents."
16464,"Mumbled tales of the weird rites and godless revels of bygone years in the ancient hall gave to me a new and potent interest in the tomb, before whose door I would sit for hours at a time each day."
16465,"I was unable to remain for a single instant in the same place; I jumped over the chairs, clapped my hands, and laughed aloud."
16466,"My indecisive speculation whether to explore the passage alone and immediately with my pocket light or to try to assemble a band of squatters for the quest, was interrupted after a time by a sudden rush of wind from outside which blew out the candle and left me in stark blackness."
16467,"And farther: in what I relate it will be seen that between the fate of the unhappy Mary Cecilia Rogers, so far as that fate is known, and the fate of one Marie Rogêt up to a certain epoch in her history, there has existed a parallel in the contemplation of whose wonderful exactitude the reason becomes embarrassed."
16468,"He has been much admired by Mr. John Neal, and was a great man in a small way."
16469,Desire to avoid needless explanations in case of unexpected police intrusions prompted these plans for a quiet and unostentatious departure.
16470,"The stuffed goddess was a nauseous sight, withered and eaten away, but it was clearly a mummified white ape of some unknown species, less hairy than any recorded variety, and infinitely nearer mankind quite shockingly so."
16471,"I waited till the crowd had oozed into the black doorway, and till all the stragglers had followed."
16472,"Had I made the wild attempt you suggest, I might never have left the Ministerial presence alive."
16473,"""And now, mon ami,"" said she, taking my hand, and so interrupting this train of reflection, ""and now, mon cher ami, since we are indissolubly one since I have yielded to your passionate entreaties, and performed my portion of our agreement I presume you have not forgotten that you also have a little favor to bestow a little promise which it is your intention to keep."
16474,"She married; and, carrying her restless energy of character with her into new scenes, she turned her thoughts to ambition, and aimed at the title and power of Princess of Wallachia; while her patriotic feelings were soothed by the idea of the good she might do her country, when her husband should be chief of this principality."
16475,"It was the porcelain miniature of a young man in a smartly curled bag wig, and bore the initials ""J."
16476,"The phrase quoted may mean any thing, or nothing, and guides in no degree."
16477,It is now rendered necessary that I give the facts as far as I comprehend them myself.
16478,"Now the work of drainage was ready to begin, and the labourers from the north were soon to strip the forbidden bog of its green moss and red heather, and kill the tiny shell paved streamlets and quiet blue pools fringed with rushes."
16479,This was a state of things not to be endured.
16480,"In the darkness below there loomed the vast blurred outlines of a vessel breaking up on the cruel rocks, and as I glanced out over the waste I saw that the light had failed for the first time since my grandfather had assumed its care."
16481,"Better die at once better plunge a poinard in her bosom, still untouched by drear adversity, and then again sheathe it in my own But, no; in times of misery we must fight against our destinies, and strive not to be overcome by them."
16482,"In accomplishing this point, I was urged partly, and perhaps principally, by a regretful memory of the deceased, but also, in part, by an uneasy, and not altogether horrorless curiosity respecting yourself."
16483,"Do you not see my tears which I in vain strive against You hear unmoved my voice broken by sobs Feel how my hand trembles: my whole heart is in the words I speak and you must not endeavour to silence me by mere words barren of meaning: the agony of my doubt hurries me on, and you must reply."
16484,"And for this trash of trash, we are modestly requested to 'pay promptly.'"
16485,"I crawled through carefully, and tried to prevent the heavy slab from falling back into place; but failed in the latter attempt."
16486,"My uncle's face came to me with less pleasant associations than in waking hours, and I recall many futile struggles and attempts to scream."
16487,West was not even excited now.
16488,"After that I lost the feeling that there were persons on the settle, and was reading intently and shudderingly when the old man came back booted and dressed in a loose antique costume, and sat down on that very bench, so that I could not see him."
16489,"You can get a music mill for a mere song, and to put it in order, you have but to open the works, and give them three or four smart raps with a hammer."
16490,Be of heart and fear nothing.
16491,Ef they dun't they'll kinder quiet daown like.
16492,"My daughter, Mademoiselle Moissart, she marry von Monsieur Voissart, and de name is bot ver respectaable name."""
16493,This last was much soiled and crumpled.
16494,"Hey? Think the old man's crazy, eh? Wal, Sir, let me tell ye that ain't the wust"" Zadok was really screaming now, and the mad frenzy of his voice disturbed me more than I care to own."
16495,And a violet coloured gas told him that this part of space was outside what he had called infinity.
16496,I verily believe that my ill looks alone saved me a flogging.
16497,"Mr. Henson, accompanied by his friend Mr. Ainsworth, was admitted to a private view of the balloon, on Saturday last when the two gentlemen made final arrangements to be included in the adventure."
16498,"Me feered de bug what I keer for de bug?"""
16499,"Erring as all mortals must, they were forced by their rigid code to seek concealment above all else; so that they came to use less and less taste in what they concealed."
16500,"She tried to disperse them, but they refused to be checked her utterance was choaked."
16501,"With these, her children, the noble widow constantly resided at Windsor; and admitted no visitors, except her own partizans, travellers from her native Germany, and a few of the foreign ministers."
16502,"I had no fear, therefore, that any circumstantial evidence could be brought forward strong enough to convict her."
16503,The peasants had gone from Kilderry because Denys Barry was to drain the great bog.
16504,"These orders were sufficient, I well knew, to insure their immediate disappearance, one and all, as soon as my back was turned."
16505,"Pestilence had become a part of our future, our existence; it was to be guarded against, like the flooding of rivers, the encroachments of ocean, or the inclemency of the sky."
16506,"It was the secrets of heaven and earth that I desired to learn; and whether it was the outward substance of things or the inner spirit of nature and the mysterious soul of man that occupied me, still my inquiries were directed to the metaphysical, or in its highest sense, the physical secrets of the world."
16507,In these various brochures the aim is always satirical; the theme being a description of Lunarian customs as compared with ours.
16508,"You must begin life, he said: you are seventeen, and longer delay would render the necessary apprenticeship more and more irksome."
16509,But why approach my chamber?
16510,"""You will say, no doubt, using the language of the law, that 'to make out my case,' I should rather undervalue, than insist upon a full estimation of the activity required in this matter."
16511,"Nature had endowed him with no neck, and had placed his ankles as usual with that race in the middle of the upper portion of the feet."
16512,"The countenance evinces no ingenuity, and is surpassed, in its resemblance to the human face, by the very commonest of wax works."
16513,"The year had been a year of terror, and of feelings more intense than terror for which there is no name upon the earth."
16514,"I had money with me and gained the friendship of the villagers by distributing it; or I brought with me some food that I had killed, which, after taking a small part, I always presented to those who had provided me with fire and utensils for cooking."
16515,"In this twilight, too, he began to realise the truth and to shout loudly as if his horse outside could do more than neigh an unsympathetic reply."
16516,So I did not abandon the search until I had become fully satisfied that the thief is a more astute man than myself.
16517,Shouts from a thousand voices now rent the air the cry of applause became universal.
16518,"Cha'ncey he says they leads off into the medders, whar a great swath wider'n a barn is matted daown, an' all the stun walls tumbled every whichway wherever it goes."
16519,"Filled with wonder, yet now realising how the man had obtained access to the chateau, I proceeded to return."
16520,"Great Cthulhu is Their cousin, yet can he spy Them only dimly."
16521,"Later traded to Jacques Caboche, another settler, it was in lost in a game of chess or poker to a newcomer named Hans Zimmerman; being used by him as a beer stein until one day, under the spell of its contents, he suffered it to roll from his front stoop to the prairie path before his home where, falling into the burrow of a prairie dog, it passed beyond his power of discovery or recovery upon his awaking."
16522,"He had been listening with peculiar intensity ever since my shocked scream had waked unaccustomed echoes in the dark cellar, and now he seemed struck with a fright which, though not comparable to my own, had in it more of the physical than of the spiritual."
16523,"As regards vegetation, as well as in respect to every thing else, the scene softened and sloped to the south."
16524,"Its cultural level had fallen very low, as proved by decaying furniture and scattered silverware which must have been long abandoned when its owners left."
16525,"We were told that this would not be the case; that we were by nature a poetical people, a nation easily duped by words, ready to array clouds in splendour, and bestow honour on the dust."
16526,"At length lassitude succeeded to the tumult I had before endured, and I threw myself on the bed in my clothes, endeavouring to seek a few moments of forgetfulness."
16527,"There seemed to be a void, and nothing more, and I felt a childish fear which prompted me to draw from my hip pocket the revolver I always carried after dark since the night I was held up in East Providence."
16528,In a thousand ways he smoothed for me the path of knowledge and made the most abstruse inquiries clear and facile to my apprehension.
16529,"""I guess ye kin git to Seth Bishop's quickest by cuttin' acrost the lower medder here, wadin' the brook at the low place, an' climbin' through Carrier's mowin' and the timber lot beyont."
16530,"Having thus completed a Magazine article, I gave it, for appellation, ""Fol Lol, by the Author of 'The Oil of Bob,'"" and enveloped it to the ""Goosetherumfoodle."""
16531,"The leafless trees spread their fibrous branches against the pure sky; their intricate and pervious tracery resembled delicate sea weed; the deer were turning up the snow in search of the hidden grass; the white was made intensely dazzling by the sun, and trunks of the trees, rendered more conspicuous by the loss of preponderating foliage, gathered around like the labyrinthine columns of a vast temple; it was impossible not to receive pleasure from the sight of these things."
16532,"And I was too dazed to exult when he whispered back a thing I had half expected ""No it wasn't that way at all."
16533,His first wish was aggrandisement; and the means that led towards this end were secondary considerations.
16534,"Retaining some presence of mind, I took the one offered me by Preston; placed it, unnoticed, over my own; left the apartment with a resolute scowl of defiance; and, next morning ere dawn of day, commenced a hurried journey from Oxford to the continent, in a perfect agony of horror and of shame."
16535,"But the unparticled matter, set in motion by a law, or quality, existing within itself, is thinking."
16536,There was then no longer any reasonable room for doubt.
16537,"A manservant shewed me to my room, which was in a remote tower overlooking the village, and the plain at the edge of the bog, and the bog itself; so that I could see from my windows in the moonlight the silent roofs from which the peasants had fled and which now sheltered the labourers from the north, and too, the parish church with its antique spire, and far out across the brooding bog the remote olden ruin on the islet gleaming white and spectral."
16538,"""How kind and generous you are every one else believes in her guilt, and that made me wretched, for I knew that it was impossible: and to see every one else prejudiced in so deadly a manner rendered me hopeless and despairing."""
16539,"The strangeness did not reside in what he said, or even in the simple idioms he used; but seemed vaguely linked with his intonation or with the internal organs that produced the spoken sounds."
16540,"I attached the car, therefore, and put all my implements in it not forgetting the condensing apparatus, a copious supply of water, and a large quantity of provisions, such as pemmican, in which much nutriment is contained in comparatively little bulk."
16541,"I remember how I shuddered at his facial expression on the night before the awful happening, when he talked so incessantly of his theory, why certain corpses never decay, but rest firm and fat in their tombs for a thousand years."
16542,"By means of a crow bar I easily dislodged the bricks, and, having carefully deposited the body against the inner wall, I propped it in that position, while, with little trouble, I re laid the whole structure as it originally stood."
16543,"He appeared like the forgotten spirit of the time in the theatres, and bade the spectators go home and die."
16544,"But to the inorganic beings to the angels the whole of the unparticled matter is substance that is to say, the whole of what we term ""space"" is to them the truest substantiality; the stars, meantime, through what we consider their materiality, escaping the angelic sense, just in proportion as the unparticled matter, through what we consider its immateriality, eludes the organic."
16545,"Volition I had none, but appeared to be impelled into motion, and flitted buoyantly out of the city, retracing the circuitous path by which I had entered it."
16546,"Wonder if she remembers the old adage about ""blood out of a turnip,"" c.? Mem."
16547,"""Weep not, sweet child,"" said he, ""the coming death of one you have hardly known."
16548,"""Having prescribed thus a limit to suit its own preconceived notions; having assumed that, if this were the body of Marie, it could have been in the water but a very brief time; the journal goes on to say: 'All experience has shown that drowned bodies, or bodies thrown into the water immediately after death by violence, require from six to ten days for sufficient decomposition to take place to bring them to the top of the water."
16549,"I have said that I am a constant speculator concerning dream life, and from this you may judge of the eagerness with which I applied myself to the study of the new patient as soon as I had fully ascertained the facts of his case."
16550,"In the possibility of any improvement, properly so called, being effected by man himself in the general condition of man, he had I am sorry to confess it little faith."
16551,"""Here, then,"" said Dupin to me, ""you have precisely what you demand to make the ascendancy complete the robber's knowledge of the loser's knowledge of the robber."""
16552,"By degrees, I remember, a stronger light pressed upon my nerves, so that I was obliged to shut my eyes."
16553,"My uncle looked concerned, and paused in his unwrapping to study my countenance."
16554,This is just; and the reference to the sense of human interest is equally so.
16555,In an instant I was precipitated and had the misfortune to fracture my arm.
16556,"Better still, though, he would utilise only two boxes of the base to support the superstructure, leaving one free to be piled on top in case the actual feat of escape required an even greater altitude."
16557,"Taking a step forward, it has been his misfortune to take two toward the right, and three toward the left."
16558,"Curtis was past all coherence, and even isolated replies were almost too much for him."
16559,"At twenty five minutes past five in the afternoon, precisely, the huge minute hand had proceeded sufficiently far on its terrible revolution to sever the small remainder of my neck."
16560,"I was punctual to the appointed hour on the following day, and found Lord Raymond waiting for me."
16561,"They retreated, and, joining others of their companions, still fell back, till they reached the main body."
16562,"This much was clear despite the nauseous eyes, the voiceless simianism, and the daemoniac savagery."
16563,"On Lammas Night, , Dr. Houghton of Aylesbury was hastily summoned by Wilbur Whateley, who had lashed his one remaining horse through the darkness and telephoned from Osborn's in the village."
16564,"Adrian's soul was painted in his countenance, and concealment or deceit were at the antipodes to the dreadless frankness of his nature."
16565,And to escape this relentless thing I plunged gladly and unhesitatingly into the stinking shallows where amidst weedy walls and sunken streets fat sea worms feast upon the world's dead.
16566,"The car is much smaller and lighter, in proportion, than the one appended to the model."
16567,My father had been and his memory was the life of my life.
16568,"""Von"" echoed every little old gentleman in every leather bottomed arm chair in Vondervotteimittiss. ""Von"" said his watch also; ""von"" said the watch of his vrow; and ""von"" said the watches of the boys, and the little gilt repeaters on the tails of the cat and pig."
16569,Do not return to your families with the stigma of disgrace marked on your brows.
16570,"The singing was interrupted by laughing and talking; never was merry ditty so sadly timed, never laughter more akin to tears."
16571,"Knowing little of the art myself, I was yet certain that none of his harmonies had any relation to music I had heard before; and concluded that he was a composer of highly original genius."
16572,"It sounded so unnatural slopping like, he said that he didn't dare undress and go to sleep."
16573,"The bandage about the jaws was a silk handkerchief in which I had bound up my head, in default of my customary nightcap."
16574,"Adrian despised the narrow views of the politician, and Raymond held in supreme contempt the benevolent visions of the philanthropist."
16575,"Their incursion would hardly have been felt had they come alone; but the Irish, collected in unnatural numbers, began to feel the inroads of famine, and they followed in the wake of the Americans for England also."
16576,"Then I came suddenly into still noonday solitudes, where no wind of heaven ever intruded, and where vast meadows of poppies, and slender, lily looking flowers spread themselves out a weary distance, all silent and motionless forever."
16577,"Next evening found me a somewhat late visitor at the Rantipole theatre, where I felt sure of satisfying my curiosity at once, by merely stepping into the box of those exquisite specimens of affability and omniscience, the Misses Arabella and Miranda Cognoscenti."
16578,"Madame Deluc's attention was called to the dress worn by the girl, on account of its resemblance to one worn by a deceased relative."
16579,"She, too, was quite a child when married; and her mother, also, Madame Moissart, was only fourteen when led to the altar."
16580,"With the particles of the oily and spicy viand which now remained, I thoroughly rubbed the bandage wherever I could reach it; then, raising my hand from the floor, I lay breathlessly still."
16581,"At last he rose, and said in his usual tone of voice, ""The time grows on us, Verney, I must away."
16582,Sometimes we passed whole days under the leafy covert of the forest with our books and music.
16583,It was impossible to effect any thing in so short a time.
16584,There are six candles on the board of the Automaton during exhibition.
16585,My reply was ready; a reproach I deemed calculated to sting his very heart.
16586,"It is more cold within her, than a fire left by gypsies in winter time, the spent embers crowned by a pyramid of snow."
16587,"Mont Blanc, the supreme and magnificent Mont Blanc, raised itself from the surrounding aiguilles, and its tremendous dome overlooked the valley."
16588,"Before I had quitted your apartment, on a sensation of cold, I had covered myself with some clothes, but these were insufficient to secure me from the dews of night."
16589,"As the naiads neared the bog, without altering their course, a new line of stumbling stragglers zigzagged drunkenly out of the castle from some door far below my window, groped sightlessly across the courtyard and through the intervening bit of village, and joined the floundering column of labourers on the plain."
16590,"Yes, you are the sole, the agonizing cause of all I suffer, of all I must suffer untill I die."
16591,"Though these stately old avenues were ill surfaced and unkempt, their elm shaded dignity had not entirely departed."
16592,"But I was restrained, when I thought of the heroic and suffering Elizabeth, whom I tenderly loved, and whose existence was bound up in mine."
16593,"Morning after morning he would lie on the cliffs and look over the world's rim at the cryptical aether beyond, listening to spectral bells and the wild cries of what might have been gulls."
16594,"It grew louder louder louder And still the men chatted pleasantly, and smiled."
16595,It occurred to me that I must be in a highly nervous state to let a few random creakings set me off speculating in this fashion but I regretted none the less that I was unarmed.
16596,"The average of their intelligence is woefully low, whilst their annals reek of overt viciousness and of half hidden murders, incests, and deeds of almost unnamable violence and perversity."
16597,She saw that he was endowed with genius and surpassing talent; these she cultivated for the sake of afterwards using them for the furtherance of her own views.
16598,I mean the truth of Gravitation.
16599,"Nor shall you, my friend; cheer up; cease to weep, I entreat you."
16600,In this state of mind I wrote to Elizabeth.
16601,"I do so because of my desire to set certain unusual facts before the public; a thing I shall not in all probability survive to accomplish in person, since the circumstances surrounding me are as menacing as they are extraordinary, and involve not only the hopeless crippling of the U , but the impairment of my iron German will in a manner most disastrous."
16602,"Write, dearest Victor, one line one word will be a blessing to us."
16603,"What the whole proceeding meant, I could not imagine; unless it involved some strange rite connected with Devil Reef, or unless some party had landed from a ship on that sinister rock."
16604,"Yonder are Islesen, Hotholm, Keildhelm, Suarven, and Buckholm."
16605,"""The end,"" ran that noisome scrawl, ""is here."
16606,"An' that ain't the wust, nuther."
16607,"But you are distant from me, and it is possible that you may dread and yet be pleased with this explanation; and in a probability of this being the case, I dare not any longer postpone writing what, during your absence, I have often wished to express to you but have never had the courage to begin."
16608,"The mansion, gone for a century, once more reared its stately height to the raptured vision; every window ablaze with the splendour of many candles."
16609,"Yet when the men of Ulthar and Nir and Hatheg crushed their fears and scaled that haunted steep by day in search of Barzai the Wise, they found graven in the naked stone of the summit a curious and Cyclopean symbol fifty cubits wide, as if the rock had been riven by some titanic chisel."
16610,"""After the murder of Clerval I returned to Switzerland, heart broken and overcome."
16611,"I would be an editor I would be a poet I would pen stanzas to the 'Oil of Bob.' Pardon me and aid me to be great"" ""My dear Thingum,"" replied my father, I had been christened Thingum after a wealthy relative so surnamed, ""My dear Thingum,"" he said, raising me from my knees by the ears ""Thingum, my boy, you're a trump, and take after your father in having a soul."
16612,When I die I will bequeath you the 'Lollipop.'
16613,All this he tells me yet I cannot forget what I saw in the sky on the night after Slater died.
16614,She welcomed me with the greatest affection.
16615,"Overpowered by an intense sentiment of horror, unaccountable yet unendurable, I threw on my clothes with haste for I felt that I should sleep no more during the night, and endeavored to arouse myself from the pitiable condition into which I had fallen, by pacing rapidly to and fro through the apartment."
16616,"Very little dependence is to be placed upon it, in my humble opinion; and if I were not well aware, from experience, how very easily men of science are mystified, on points out of their usual range of inquiry, I should be profoundly astonished at finding so eminent a chemist as Professor Draper, discussing Mr. Kissam's or is it Mr. Quizzem's?"
16617,Yew grows an' that grows faster.
16618,"He had opened his oblong box, in order to feast his eyes on the pictorial treasure within."
16619,"They had issued from the well, which lay just within view to my right."
16620,"About noon I encountered a suitable supply house far downtown, and at approximately : p.m. arrived at my boarding place with the necessary paraphernalia and two sturdy and intelligent mechanics."
16621,"""That I certainly will, Mr. Blackwood,"" said I. ""Good"" he replied."
16622,"I once had a friend, the most noble of human creatures, and am entitled, therefore, to judge respecting friendship."
16623,"There were only three passengers dark, unkempt men of sullen visage and somewhat youthful cast and when the vehicle stopped they clumsily shambled out and began walking up State Street in a silent, almost furtive fashion."
16624,"No path was trodden in its vicinity; and, to reach our happy home, there was need of putting back, with force, the foliage of many thousands of forest trees, and of crushing to death the glories of many millions of fragrant flowers."
16625,"Her starboard side was next the whirl, and on the larboard arose the world of ocean we had left."
16626,"Almost dazed by this sudden obstacle, and violently dreading the fall of night in this decaying and half unlighted town, I left the bus and reëntered the hotel lobby; where the sullen, queer looking night clerk told me I could have Room on next the top floor large, but without running water for a dollar."
16627,At length the thought of you crossed my mind.
16628,"During the two years that had elapsed previous to their marriage my father had gradually relinquished all his public functions; and immediately after their union they sought the pleasant climate of Italy, and the change of scene and interest attendant on a tour through that land of wonders, as a restorative for her weakened frame."
16629,"I could not help thinking of the wild ritual of this work, and of its probable influence upon the hypochondriac, when, one evening, having informed me abruptly that the lady Madeline was no more, he stated his intention of preserving her corpse for a fortnight, previously to its final interment, in one of the numerous vaults within the main walls of the building."
16630,"The flood and storms did more harm to continental Europe than to us giving, as it were, the last blow to the calamities which destroyed it."
16631,"I have already put off the carelessness of childhood, the unlined brow, and springy gait of early years, that they may adorn thee."
16632,"And not only could such a thing do this, but at any epoch, should a given result be afforded him should one of these numberless comets, for example, be presented to his inspection he could have no difficulty in determining, by the analytic retrogradation, to what original impulse it was due."
16633,"The choice spots over here among the rocks, however, not only yield the finest variety, but in far greater abundance; so that we often got in a single day, what the more timid of the craft could not scrape together in a week."
16634,"His nose was prodigiously long, crooked, and inflammatory; his eyes full, brilliant, and acute; his chin and cheeks, although wrinkled with age, were broad, puffy, and double; but of ears of any kind or character there was not a semblance to be discovered upon any portion of his head."
16635,"The weight of these valuables exceeded three hundred and fifty pounds avoirdupois; and in this estimate I have not included one hundred and ninety seven superb gold watches; three of the number being worth each five hundred dollars, if one."
16636,"This was to a great degree the case: for, though a large landed proprietor, yet, being a projector, and of an ardent and industrious disposition, he had on his own estate given himself up to agricultural labours."
16637,I passed the night wretchedly.
16638,"The beldame's face was alight with inhuman exultation, and the little yellow toothed morbidity tittered mockingly as it pointed at the heavily sleeping form of Elwood on the other couch across the room."
16639,"Nature grows old, and shakes in her decaying limbs, creation has become bankrupt What wonder then, that eclipse and death have led to destruction the light of thy life, O Perdita"" CHAPTER IX."
16640,And all the while the clamour at the outer door increased.
16641,The hours were slow for each minute was employed; we lived more in one week than many do in the course of several months and the variety and novelty of our pleasures gave zest to each.
16642,"And in the direction or concentration of this effort, or, still more properly, in its adaption to the eyes which were to behold it upon earth, he perceived that he should be employing the best means laboring to the greatest advantage in the fulfilment of his destiny as t."
16643,"Beaufort had taken effectual measures to conceal himself, and it was ten months before my father discovered his abode."
16644,"Against a pretty stiff breeze, I feel convinced, we can make our way with the propeller."
16645,"For weeks, for months, I pondered upon the means of the murder."
16646,"The room, although ill contrived, smoke blackened, low pitched, and in every other respect agreeing with the general character of such places at the period was, nevertheless, in the opinion of the grotesque groups scattered here and there within it, sufficiently well adapted to its purpose."
16647,"I assume upon myself to say, that no individual, of however great genius ever wrote with a good pen understand me, a good article."
16648,"I yearned mightily to enter this fascinating yet repellent city, and besought the bearded man to land me at the stone pier by the huge carven gate Akariel; but he gently denied my wish, saying: ""Into Thalarion, the City of a Thousand Wonders, many have passed but none returned."
16649,"""I spent the winter in this manner."
16650,"Tall and fairly handsome, with a sort of weird Eastern grace despite certain slight oddities of proportion, Robert Jermyn began life as a scholar and investigator."
16651,I looked upon my future felicity as secured.
16652,"The one wrote a Jeremiad about usury, and was called Jeremy Bentham."
16653,"Whenever a rich old hunks or prodigal heir or bankrupt corporation gets into the notion of putting up a palace, there is no such thing in the world as stopping either of them, and this every intelligent person knows."
16654,'The pieces of the frock torn out by the bushes were about three inches wide and six inches long.
16655,"Northwardly from that huge rim before mentioned, and which, with slight qualification, may be called the limit of human discovery in these regions, one unbroken, or nearly unbroken, sheet of ice continues to extend."
16656,"I really believe you don't know me at all."""
16657,"It was clear, therefore, that you would not fail to combine the two ideas of Orion and Chantilly."
16658,Its beauty even exceeded my anticipations and yet there was something about it which disappointed me without my being able to tell exactly what it was.
16659,"I had acquired in my harp a companion in rainy days; a sweet soother of my feelings when any untoward accident ruffled them: I often addressed it as my only friend; I could pour forth to it my hopes and loves, and I fancied that its sweet accents answered me."
16660,"The wind grew stronger, and the air was filled with the lethal, charnel odour of plague stricken towns and uncovered cemeteries."
16661,"Alfred was himself a scholar and poet of distinction, though cursed with a certain childish irresponsibility which made him an ideal prey for Sheehan's runner."
16662,"He was essentially a ""theorist"" that word now of so much sanctity, formerly an epithet of contempt."
16663,"I felt sufficiently safe, therefore, and composed myself to my slumbers forthwith."
16664,"Nothing of importance occurred, and I passed the day in reading, having taken care to supply myself with books."
16665,"""One by one, her brothers and sister died; and her mother, with the exception of her neglected daughter, was left childless."
16666,"And then the stately grace of the clean, delicately granulated columnar stems, the largest four feet in diameter, at twenty from the ground."
16667,"I experienced some shame at my susceptibility to so slight a thing, but the drawing nevertheless disturbed me, especially in connexion with some adjacent passages descriptive of Anzique gastronomy."
16668,"A very simple diddle, indeed, is this."
16669,"My speech, always susceptible to environmental influences, was the first thing to succumb to the change; and my suddenly acquired archaism of diction was soon remarked upon."
16670,"He loathed the idea that his daughter should be united to a Christian, but he feared the resentment of Felix if he should appear lukewarm, for he knew that he was still in the power of his deliverer if he should choose to betray him to the Italian state which they inhabited."
16671,"That, Pickman said, was the kind of thing he had been talking about an aperture of the network of tunnels that used to undermine the hill."
16672,"One evening, quitting our inn, we strolled down a shady lane, then up a grassy slope, till we came to an eminence, that commanded an extensive view of hill and dale, meandering rivers, dark woods, and shining villages."
16673,I had finished a portion of the last and the eleventh; there remained but a single stone to be fitted and plastered in.
16674,"The silence of midnight, to speak truly, though apparently a paradox, rung in my ears."
16675,"They behaved remarkably well especially so, any one of sense might have known that some devilish scheme was brewing from that particular fact, that the fellows behaved so remarkably well."
16676,"Heavens the town is swarming with wild beasts How terrible a spectacle how dangerous a peculiarity"" Terrible, if you please; but not in the least degree dangerous."
16677,Will you accompany me to Windsor to morrow?
16678,"We have the name of the Lothario in question, who is, at present, stationed in Paris, but, for obvious reasons, forbear to make it public."""
16679,"As Kalos grew inexplicably weaker and weaker despite the ministrations of puzzled physicians and of his assiduous friend, he desired to be carried often to the grove which he so loved."
16680,"Walakea, though, was one of the few as hadn't got none of the fish blood bein' of a royal line that intermarried with royal lines on other islands."
16681,His Excellency stooped to take it up.
16682,We first came upon a few stragglers of the Irish at St. Albans.
16683,"I saw that the moat was filled in, and that some of the well known towers were demolished; whilst new wings existed to confuse the beholder."
16684,"""See see"" cried he, shrieking in my ears, ""Almighty God see see"" As he spoke, I became aware of a dull, sullen glare of red light which streamed down the sides of the vast chasm where we lay, and threw a fitful brilliancy upon our deck."
16685,"Wise men told him his simple fancies were inane and childish, and he believed it because he could see that they might easily be so."
16686,"I said to myself, with all the ardour of a sculptor, that this man was a faun's statue out of antique Hellas, dug from a temple's ruins and brought somehow to life in our stifling age only to feel the chill and pressure of devastating years."
16687,All I can say is that they came from something I had known as a friend.
16688,"At once he saw there was something on the table which did not belong there, and a second look left no room for doubt."
16689,"I had heard the noise, however faint, and my soul was awakened within me."
16690,"They hurried away, as soon as they saw me; my agitated mien added to their fear of coming near one who had entered within the verge of contagion."
16691,"With strange art were they builded, for no other city had houses like them; and travellers from Thraa and Ilarnek and Kadatheron marvelled at the shining domes wherewith they were surmounted."
16692,The last action at which I was present was the taking of .
16693,"Had I been able to meet with it, at the moment, there could have been no doubt of its fate; but it appeared that the crafty animal had been alarmed at the violence of my previous anger, and forebore to present itself in my present mood."
16694,"Could I have depended, indeed, upon Jupiter's aid, I would have had no hesitation in attempting to get the lunatic home by force; but I was too well assured of the old negro's disposition, to hope that he would assist me, under any circumstances, in a personal contest with his master."
16695,"On each side of the chest, near the top, were three rings of iron six in all by means of which a firm hold could be obtained by six persons."
16696,He found the Marsh refinery a queer place it's in an old mill on the lower falls of the Manuxet.
16697,"They insisted, therefore, that I should engage with a solemn promise that if the vessel should be freed I would instantly direct my course southwards."
16698,"An eyeglass, on the other hand, has a savor of downright foppery and affectation."
16699,"""That will do must try it again."""
16700,"At other times he would call for the dreaded Necronomicon and the Daemonolatreia of Remigius, in which he seemed hopeful of finding some formula to check the peril he conjured up."
16701,"For on the faces of this throng was writ a madness born of horror unendurable, and on their tongues were words so terrible that no hearer paused for proof."
16702,"""This thicket was a singular an exceedingly singular one."
16703,"The occupant was emitting sounds of veritably inhuman nature, as if racked by some torment beyond description."
16704,"I constantly consulted my watch by the light of my electric lantern, and listened with feverish anxiety at the receiver of the telephone; but for more than a quarter of an hour heard nothing."
16705,Nothing could exceed in beauty the contrast between these two excellent creatures.
16706,But you speak merely of impulses upon the air.
16707,"She had never been to school, but was filled with disjointed scraps of ancient lore that Old Whateley had taught her."
16708,"Looking at my watch, I found it six o'clock."
16709,"About seven o'clock in the evening she had died, and her frantic husband had made a frightful scene in his efforts to kill West, whom he wildly blamed for not saving her life."
16710,"You throw a torch into a pile of buildings, and when they are consumed, you sit among the ruins and lament the fall."
16711,"We found Raymond in his dining room with six others: the bottle was being pushed about merrily, and had made considerable inroads on the understanding of one or two."
16712,Yet the effect is incongruous to the timid alone.
16713,"I shall be done by and by, and then you may begin."
16714,"In the coffin lay an amulet of curious and exotic design, which had apparently been worn around the sleeper's neck."
16715,"One man in particular stood in front, his eyes fixt on the prophet, his mouth open, his limbs rigid, while his face changed to various colours, yellow, blue, and green, through intense fear."
16716,"In case of his suspicions with regard to my existence proving ultimately correct, he, in the meantime, made an incision in my stomach, and removed several of my viscera for private dissection."
16717,"The Greek fleet blockading every port of Stamboul, prevented the arrival of succour from Asia; all egress on the side towards land had become impracticable, except to such desperate sallies, as reduced the numbers of the enemy without making any impression on our lines."
16718,"And yet I am strangely content, and cling desperately to those sere memories, when my mind momentarily threatens to reach beyond to the other."
16719,Out of the South it was that the White Ship used to come when the moon was full and high in the heavens.
16720,"I repassed, in my memory, my whole life my quiet happiness while residing with my family in Geneva, the death of my mother, and my departure for Ingolstadt."
16721,The shrieks were continued until the gate was forced and then suddenly ceased.
16722,I fancied that it stood on end with indignation.
16723,"That Idris, the princely born, nursling of wealth and luxury, should have come through the tempestuous winter night from her regal abode, and standing at my lowly door, conjure me to fly with her through darkness and storm was surely a dream again her plaintive tones, the sight of her loveliness assured me that it was no vision."
16724,"After some observations on the scenery and seats, Raymond said: ""Philosophers have called man a microcosm of nature, and find a reflection in the internal mind for all this machinery visibly at work around us."
16725,He loved her for her beauty and for her amiable disposition but he seemed to love her more for what he considered her superior wisdom.
16726,"His design was to visit India, in the belief that he had in his knowledge of its various languages, and in the views he had taken of its society, the means of materially assisting the progress of European colonization and trade."
16727,"They entered, and their leader addressed me."
16728,One was an elm of fine size and exquisite form: it stood guard over the southern gate of the vale.
16729,"DURING the fall of the year , while residing near Charlottesville, Virginia, I casually made the acquaintance of Mr. Augustus Bedloe."
16730,"I could hardly forbear laughing in his face while he proceeded to discuss, with the profoundest gravity, what he termed ""the refinedly peculiar character"" of the insult he had received."
16731,I reply that I know nothing beyond what I saw.
16732,"The resources of his mind on this occasion were truly astonishing: his conversation was full of imagination; and very often, in imitation of the Persian and Arabic writers, he invented tales of wonderful fancy and passion."
16733,"We suffered much, and made a narrow escape, but fortune befriended us, as well as our mates in the long boat."
16734,"I went directly home to Toledo from Boston, and later spent a month at Maumee recuperating from my ordeal."
16735,"Hence I was obliged to enforce a rigid system of exclusion; and none obtained access to the premises upon whose discretion I could not rely."""
16736,"The whole series of my life appeared to me as a dream; I sometimes doubted if indeed it were all true, for it never presented itself to my mind with the force of reality."
16737,"""Get well and return to us."
16738,"What a brimful cup of joyful agony it was, when his face first gleamed with the glance of recognition when he pressed my hand, now more fevered than his own, and when he pronounced my name No trace of his past insanity remained, to dash my joy with sorrow."
16739,"He became pale, then excessively red; then, dropping his pocket handkerchief, stooped to recover it, when I caught a glimpse of his countenance, while it could be seen by no one else at the table."
16740,"Against these assertions I have no tangible proof to offer, since my key to the padlock was lost in the struggle on that night of horrors."
16741,"In this manner I fancied I could distinguish the precise moment when he fairly disengaged the lid also, that I could determine when he removed it altogether, and when he deposited it upon the lower berth in his room; this latter point I knew, for example, by certain slight taps which the lid made in striking against the wooden edges of the berth, as he endeavored to lay it down very gently there being no room for it on the floor."
16742,"I had met, however, with many angles in the wall, and thus I could form no guess at the shape of the vault; for vault I could not help supposing it to be."
16743,"The writers seem, in each instance, to be utterly uninformed in respect to astronomy."
16744,"What though those limbs moved not, and those lips could no more frame modulated accents of wisdom and love What though like a weed flung from the fruitless sea, he lay the prey of corruption still that was the form she had caressed, those the lips that meeting hers, had drank the spirit of love from the commingling breath; that was the earthly mechanism of dissoluble clay she had called her own."
16745,As I crawled into the stranded boat I realised that only one theory could explain my position.
16746,"The buds decked the trees, the flowers adorned the land: the dark branches, swollen with seasonable juices, expanded into leaves, and the variegated foliage of spring, bending and singing in the breeze, rejoiced in the genial warmth of the unclouded empyrean: the brooks flowed murmuring, the sea was waveless, and the promontories that over hung it were reflected in the placid waters; birds awoke in the woods, while abundant food for man and beast sprung up from the dark ground."
16747,"The slanting sun was now very low, and the whole hushed town seemed draped in an unreal and malign glamour."
16748,"I repeat, therefore, that it must have been simply a freak of my own fancy, distempered by good Captain Hardy's green tea."
16749,"Instantly a figure advanced to the threshold that of a young woman about twenty eight years of age slender, or rather slight, and somewhat above the medium height."
16750,But of course this is not the case.
16751,"The nerve conveys similar ones to the brain; the brain, also, similar ones to the unparticled matter which permeates it."
16752,"He is well acquainted with my MS., and I just copied into the middle of the blank sheet the words ""' Un dessein si funeste, S'il n'est digne d'Atrée, est digne de Thyeste."
16753,"She weeps continually, and accuses herself unjustly as the cause of his death; her words pierce my heart."
16754,"Men advised one another to see Nyarlathotep, and shuddered."
16755,These were dreadful fears and they even haunted my dreams.
16756,"Imitating Pickman's listening, I fancied I heard a faint scurrying sound somewhere, and a series of squeals or bleats in a direction I couldn't determine."
16757,"Idris is a gentle, pretty, sweet little girl; it is impossible not to have an affection for her, and I have a very sincere one; only do not speak of love love, the tyrant and the tyrant queller; love, until now my conqueror, now my slave; the hungry fire, the untameable beast, the fanged snake no no I will have nothing to do with that love."
16758,"It is now, to be sure, growing rather dark but you can examine it at your leisure in the morning."
16759,"But, under the real circumstances of the case, if we are to suppose gold the motive of this outrage, we must also imagine the perpetrator so vacillating an idiot as to have abandoned his gold and his motive together."
16760,"""Captain Pratt, on the contrary, when he had sailed a thousand miles west of this position, was an hour, and when he had sailed twenty four thousand miles west, was twenty four hours, or one day, behind the time at London."
16761,"Had checked for nothing until the third day before her death, when she took out in person the sum of francs."
16762,"Having exhausted the Harris family of all the information it could furnish, I turned my attention to early town records and deeds with a zeal more penetrating than that which my uncle had occasionally shewn in the same work."
16763,"The truth is that the introduction was attended, upon my part, with a degree of anxious embarrassment which operated to prevent any definite impressions of either time or place."
16764,"""You propose,"" replied I, ""to fly from the habitations of man, to dwell in those wilds where the beasts of the field will be your only companions."
16765,"Not knowing whether I was mad or sane, sleeping or waking, I was saved only by a merciful numbness."
16766,"But I, the true murderer, felt the never dying worm alive in my bosom, which allowed of no hope or consolation."
16767,A certain number of these failures had remained alive one was in an asylum while others had vanished and as he thought of conceivable yet virtually impossible eventualities he often shivered beneath his usual stolidity.
16768,I must look you out a little specimen of each.
16769,"In a few moments, however, it is seen that the main body of the water still sweeps in a gentle and extensive curve to the left, the wall following it as before, while a stream of considerable volume, diverging from the principal one, makes its way, with a slight ripple, under the door, and is thus hidden from sight."
16770,"When Jermyn sailed for England, therefore, it was with the exultant probability that he would within a few months receive a priceless ethnological relic confirming the wildest of his great great great grandfather's narratives that is, the wildest which he had ever heard."
16771,"The awful event was very sudden, and wholly unexpected."
16772,"As lately as an Exeter community exhumed a dead body and ceremoniously burnt its heart in order to prevent certain alleged visitations injurious to the public health and peace, and one may imagine the point of view of the same section in ."
16773,"At first I had neglected them, but now that I was able to decipher the characters in which they were written, I began to study them with diligence."
16774,"In fact, having once established connected and legible characters, I scarcely gave a thought to the mere difficulty of developing their import."
16775,"Sally she yelled aout, 'O help, the haouse is a cavin' in' . . ."
16776,"Be proud of me, and cherish your infant remembrance of me."
16777,"If such had been the case, we know our duty better than to bring him into the presence of a noble of your family."""
16778,"If I felt any emotion at all, it was a kind of chuckling satisfaction at the cleverness I was about to display in extricating myself from this dilemma; and I never, for a moment, looked upon my ultimate safety as a question susceptible of doubt."
16779,"I have said already that he had his weak points; but in speaking of these, I must not be understood as referring to his obstinacy: which was one of his strong points ""assurement ce n' etait pas sa foible."""
16780,As I waited breathlessly I perceived that both sound and wind were increasing; the effect being to give me an odd notion of myself as tied to a pair of rails in the path of a gigantic approaching locomotive.
16781,"Dreadful as the time was when I pursued my father towards the ocean, found their sic only his lifeless corpse; yet for my own sake I should prefer that to the watching one by one his senses fade; his pulse weaken and sleeplessly as it were devour his life in gazing."
16782,The youth's eyes glistened and his nostrils curled at the fumes of the brownish fluid which an attendant was pouring out for him.
16783,"Properly introduced, will show not only your knowledge of the language, but your general reading and wit."
16784,"'Oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, has the audacity to demand of us, for his twattle, a 'speedy insertion and prompt pay.'"
16785,"Perhaps it was his mountain freedom that he missed, or perhaps the turmoil in his brain had grown too acute for his rather sluggish physique; but at all events the flame of vitality flickered low in the decadent body."
16786,"The constructive or combining power, by which ingenuity is usually manifested, and to which the phrenologists I believe erroneously have assigned a separate organ, supposing it a primitive faculty, has been so frequently seen in those whose intellect bordered otherwise upon idiocy, as to have attracted general observation among writers on morals."
16787,"This boat shall guide us, with a rapidity which will surprise even ourselves, to him who employed it in the midnight of the fatal Sabbath."
16788,"Then I tried the opposite of the soothing plan, and told him he was mad pitifully demented."
16789,"Henry wished to dissuade me, but seeing me bent on this plan, ceased to remonstrate."
16790,"Be it then known that I was born on the family Estate in Devonshire, of the th day of August, or in the new Gregorian Stile of Reckoning, the th of August, being therefore now in my th year."
16791,The victim must have been absolutely passive at their will.
16792,"Romantic as all this may appear, I really received a letter from Madame Lalande the beautiful, the wealthy, the idolized Madame Lalande."
16793,"e. i. by which again the very classical phrase non est inventus, is supposed to be understood."
16794,This latter reflection urged the man still to follow the fugitive.
16795,"I turned angrily away: ""Verney,"" said Adrian, ""you are very cynical: sit down; or if you will not, perhaps, as you are not a frequent visitor, Lord Raymond will humour you, and accompany us, as we had previously agreed upon, to parliament."""
16796,Have I not told you of the great elixir of eternal life?
16797,"The two scoundrels were thus ""in at the death,"" and through a half open window of the back parlor of the inn, amused themselves in grinning at the denouement of the drama."
16798,"In dying, do they not rather waste away mournfully, rendering unto God, little by little, their existence, as these trees render up shadow after shadow, exhausting their substance unto dissolution?"
