16799,"Most o' the folks araound the taown took the hard times kind o' sheep like an' resigned, but they was in bad shape because the fishin' was peterin' aout an' the mills wa'n't doin' none too well."
16800,"Those eyes those large, those shining, those divine orbs they became to me twin stars of Leda, and I to them devoutest of astrologers."
16801,"From him she sprung, flesh of his flesh, bone of his bone and not, as heretofore, are you content to trace in her downy cheek and delicate limbs, an affinity to Raymond, but in her enthusiastic affections, in the sweet qualities of her mind, you may still find him living, the good, the great, the beloved."
16802,"My daughter's daughter, Mademoiselle Voissart, she marry von Monsieur Croissart, and den again, my daughter's grande daughter, Mademoiselle Croissart, she marry von Monsieur Froissart; and I suppose you say dat dat is not von ver respectaable name."
16803,"His wit, his bon mots, the record of his personal attractions, fascinating manners, and social talents, were long remembered and repeated from mouth to mouth."
16804,"""Yours sincerely, ""STUBBS."""
16805,"Farewell, Perdita farewell, poor girl never again will you see yourself thus; luxury and wealth are no longer yours; in the excess of your poverty you may envy the homeless beggar; most truly am I without a home I live on a barren desart, which, wide and interminable, brings forth neither fruit or flower; in the midst is a solitary rock, to which thou, Perdita, art chained, and thou seest the dreary level stretch far away."""
16806,"His tale is connected and told with an appearance of the simplest truth, yet I own to you that the letters of Felix and Safie, which he showed me, and the apparition of the monster seen from our ship, brought to me a greater conviction of the truth of his narrative than his asseverations, however earnest and connected."
16807,The duck of Vaucanson was still more remarkable.
16808,"The winds of the firmament breathed but one sound within my ears, and the ripples upon the sea murmured evermore Morella."
16809,His plans were facilitated by the news which arrived from Paris.
16810,"But first, another draught of the Medoc."""
16811,Armitage chose his words very carefully.
16812,"Agatha, the ever gentle Agatha, kissed the hands of the lovely stranger, and pointing to her brother, made signs which appeared to me to mean that he had been sorrowful until she came."
16813,At length it was mentioned in the newspapers.
16814,Woodville was obliged to make a journey into the country and was detained from day to day in irksome absence from his lovely bride.
16815,"Around in every direction it was still as black as pitch, but nearly overhead there burst out, all at once, a circular rift of clear sky as clear as I ever saw and of a deep bright blue and through it there blazed forth the full moon with a lustre that I never before knew her to wear."
16816,"The thing that lay half bent on its side in a foetid pool of greenish yellow ichor and tarry stickiness was almost nine feet tall, and the dog had torn off all the clothing and some of the skin."
16817,Could not make out the words of the shrill voice.
16818,"Some miracle might have produced it, yet the stages of the discovery were distinct and probable."
16819,Could he be I shuddered at the conception the murderer of my brother?
16820,Sensations are the great things after all.
16821,"I had seen it before, let footprints tell what they might; and where it was I had seen it were best forgotten."
16822,"Will no entreaties cause thee to turn a favourable eye upon thy creature, who implores thy goodness and compassion?"
16823,"The same half disdainful lips and smile of triumph, the same intelligent eyes, the same brow and chestnut hair; her very hands and taper fingers resembled his."
16824,"William Godwin, however, says in his ""Mandeville,"" that ""invisible things are the only realities,"" and this, all will allow, is a case in point."
16825,"It was a gentle daylight rain that awaked me from my stupor in the brush grown railway cut, and when I staggered out to the roadway ahead I saw no trace of any prints in the fresh mud."
16826,"As he was proceeding along the sands, he struck his foot against something and fell at his length on the ground."
16827,"Long long long many minutes, many hours, many days, have I heard it yet I dared not oh, pity me, miserable wretch that I am I dared not I dared not speak We have put her living in the tomb Said I not that my senses were acute?"
16828,"The very beauty of the Grecian climate, during the season of spring, added torture to her sensations."
16829,"And then he devoutly loved Perdita; the bend of her head, her glossy ringlets, the turn of her form were to him subjects of deep tenderness and admiration; as she spoke, her melodious tones entered his soul; he soon softened towards her, comforting and caressing her, and endeavouring to cheat himself into the belief that he had never wronged her."
16830,"Glass or no glass, I must explore it a little."
16831,"During the 'nineties he dabbled in Satanism, and at all times he devoured avidly any doctrine or theory which seemed to promise escape from the close vistas of science and the dully unvarying laws of Nature."
16832,"In the tentacles this was observable as a deepening of the greenish tinge, whilst in the tail it was manifest as a yellowish appearance which alternated with a sickly greyish white in the spaces between the purple rings."
16833,"As it was, he failed in Calculus D and Advanced General Psychology, though not without hope of making up lost ground before the end of the term."
16834,"But soon the dim orb passed from over the sun, and lingered down the eastern heaven."
16835,"He was living in one of the sheds, and Sawyer thought he seemed unusually worried and tremulous."
16836,"No one could read the old writing now, but things were told by word of mouth."
16837,Outshining all others was the palace of the kings of Mnar and of the lands adjacent.
16838,"""Do not degrade me in my own eyes,"" she said; ""poverty has long been my nurse; hard visaged she is, but honest."
16839,"They feared outsiders, but slowly grew accustomed to us; finally helping vastly when we beat down all the thickets and tore out all the partitions of the mansion in our search for the lurking fear."
16840,"There was a solution which he injected into the veins of dead things, and if they were fresh enough they responded in strange ways."
16841,"In the end, it is said, the island became, nine tenths of it, church."
16842,"They have no variation of principle in their investigations; at best, when urged by some unusual emergency by some extraordinary reward they extend or exaggerate their old modes of practice, without touching their principles."
16843,In conclusion: I am done forever with billets doux and am never to be met without SPECTACLES.
16844,The events that immediately followed on my arrival at Windsor changed this view of things.
16845,"This behavior, I saw plainly, was not very pleasing to Monsieur Maillard; but that gentleman said nothing, and the conversation was resumed by a very lean little man in a big wig."
16846,"The 'Hum Drum,' the 'Rowdy Dow,' and the 'Goosetherumfoodle' excel, we admit, in braggadocio, but, in all other points, give us the 'Lollipop."
16847,On earth I thought that I had well fulfilled my trial my last moments became peaceful with the reflection that I deserved no blame but you take from me that feeling My passions were there my all to me and the hopeless misery that possessed me shut all love all images of beauty from my soul Nature was to me as the blackest night if rays of loveliness ever strayed into my darkness it was only to draw bitter tears of hopeless anguish from my eyes Oh on earth what consolation is there to misery?
16848,"I also rose, and both stood motionless for a time, straining our ears as the uncanny rhythm seemed more and more to take on a vital quality."
16849,"Looking timidly around, as if she feared to be overheard, she whispered: ""I have discovered to morrow that is, to day already the to morrow is come before dawn, foreigners, Austrians, my mother's hirelings, are to carry me off to Germany, to prison, to marriage to anything, except you and my brother take me away, or soon they will be here"" I was frightened by her vehemence, and imagined some mistake in her incoherent tale; but I no longer hesitated to obey her."
16850,Never came back there can't be more'n or people living there now.
16851,"I was often tempted, when all was at peace around me, and I the only unquiet thing that wandered restless in a scene so beautiful and heavenly if I except some bat, or the frogs, whose harsh and interrupted croaking was heard only when I approached the shore often, I say, I was tempted to plunge into the silent lake, that the waters might close over me and my calamities forever."
16852,"If it flag for an instant, an oversight is committed resulting in injury or defeat."
16853,"She is accosted, and invited to enter, by a polite and voluble individual at the door."
16854,"While he considers what course to pursue, however, he becomes aware of a gentle movement in the fairy bark."
16855,The following morning Lord Raymond visited me early.
16856,"With a sigh, he declines to do so."
16857,"So at least swore, with a round oath, Professor Rub a dub, and so finally thought the illustrious Von Underduk, as he took the arm of his brother in science, and without saying a word, began to make the best of his way home to deliberate upon the measures to be adopted."
16858,"But it may be said that this man lives, and is deterred from making himself known, through dread of being charged with the murder."
16859,Will you accompany me?
16860,"My departure for Ingolstadt, which had been deferred by these events, was now again determined upon."
16861,"I was a poor, helpless, miserable wretch; I knew, and could distinguish, nothing; but feeling pain invade me on all sides, I sat down and wept."
16862,I mention his talk about angles because it suggests something Wilcox had told me of his awful dreams.
16863,You are grieved and there is grief in the expression of your countenance but it is gentle and sweet.
16864,"This did not occur, however, until the lapse of a fortnight."
16865,"In crowded cities, among cultivated plains, or on the desart mountains, pain is thickly sown, and if we can tear up but one of these noxious weeds, or more, if in its stead we can sow one seed of corn, or plant one fair flower, let that be motive sufficient against suicide."
16866,"Then I asked him if he wished to leave any keepsake or lock of hair for his family in Germany in case I should be rescued, but again he gave me that strange laugh."
16867,"I will read, and you shall listen; and so we will pass away this terrible night together."""
16868,"""In supposing it to be a bug of real gold."""
16869,"Once when the gentle rain fell I glided in a barge down a sunless stream under the earth till I reached another world of purple twilight, iridescent arbours, and undying roses."
16870,"Thus circumstanced, we shall find that we float without difficulty and without exertion."
16871,Upon reviving he spoke incoherently for some time.
16872,They were grass grown and desert.
16873,It is sufficient for me to relate events without analysing causes.
16874,"I shall cork the MS. up in a bottle, however, and throw it into the sea."
16875,Later I might sift the tale and extract some nucleus of historic allegory; just now I wished to put it out of my head.
16876,But in no regard was he more peculiar than in his personal appearance.
16877,"Man doth not yield him to the angels, nor unto death utterly, save only through the weakness of his feeble will."""
16878,"In the year , a case of living inhumation happened in France, attended with circumstances which go far to warrant the assertion that truth is, indeed, stranger than fiction."
16879,"In another second he was out of the abyss and standing tremulously on a rocky hillside bathed in intense, diffused green light."
16880,"As the sleep waker pronounced these latter words, in a feeble tone, I observed on his countenance a singular expression, which somewhat alarmed me, and induced me to awake him at once."
16881,"We have it upon good authority, that Mr. Fatquack received no less than sixty two cents and a half for his late Domestic Nouvelette, the 'Dish Clout.' ""The contributors to the number before us are Mr. Crab, the eminent editor, Snob, Mumblethumb, Fatquack, and others; but, after the inimitable compositions of the editor himself, we prefer a diamond like effusion from the pen of a rising poet who writes over the signature 'Snob' a nom de guerre which we predict will one day extinguish the radiance of 'Boz.' 'Snob,' we learn, is a Mr. Thingum Bob, Esq., sole heir of a wealthy merchant of this city, Thomas Bob, Esq., and a near relative of the distinguished Mr. Thingum."
16882,But this hesitation was only momentary.
16883,"dee"" Randolph Carter stopped in the pitch darkness and rubbed his hand across his eyes."
16884,Others snapped up what it left and ate with slavering relish.
16885,"Somehow they managed to live on independently by the products of their estate, for occasional lights glimpsed from far away hills attested their continued presence."
16886,"I saw the heavens verminous with strange flying things, and beneath them a hellish black city of giant stone terraces with impious pyramids flung savagely to the moon, and devil lights burning from unnumbered windows."
16887,"The same fault is to be found in the ""Attempt c.,"" as we originally saw it."
16888,"Besides, some months have elapsed since the commission of his crimes, and no one can conjecture to what place he has wandered or what region he may now inhabit."""
16889,"""I zay,"" said he, ""you mos pe dronk as de pig, vor zit dare and not zee me zit ere; and I zay, doo, you mos pe pigger vool as de goose, vor to dispelief vat iz print in de print."
16890,"As no resistance, beyond whooping and yelling and cock a doodling, was offered to the encroachments of the party without, the ten windows were very speedily, and almost simultaneously, broken in."
16891,We had started quietly from the village because of the reporters who still lingered about after the eldritch panic of a month before the nightmare creeping death.
16892,"Thus it was that, by a master stroke of genius, I at length consummated my triumphs by ""putting money in my purse,"" and thus may be said really and fairly to have commenced that brilliant and eventful career which rendered me illustrious, and which now enables me to say, with Chateaubriand, ""I have made history"" ""I'ai fait l'histoire."""
16893,"I am not sure from what point of view the writer in question surveyed it, nor at what time; but it could neither have been from the summit of Helseggen, nor during a storm."
16894,"I had but little notion of how the thought impressions would, if successfully conveyed, arouse an intelligent response in my brain; but I felt certain that I could detect and interpret them."
16895,"At sundown, the gale had sensibly diminished in violence, and as the sea went down with it, we still entertained faint hopes of saving ourselves in the boats."
16896,"His vesture was dabbled in blood and his broad brow, with all the features of the face, was besprinkled with the scarlet horror."
16897,If this I saw not so Rowena.
16898,The screams and struggles of the old lady during which the hair was torn from her head had the effect of changing the probably pacific purposes of the Ourang Outang into those of wrath.
16899,"Gifted and learned, he took highest honours at Oxford and seemed likely to redeem the intellectual fame of his family."
16900,"A party, of which he formed one, landed at Borneo, and passed into the interior on an excursion of pleasure."
16901,"""Precisely the one went east and the other went west, you jade, and they both have gone quite round the world."
16902,"Curiously enough, they seemed to have been chiselled badly out of proportion with their scenic background; for one of the creatures was shewn in the act of killing a whale represented as but little larger than himself."
16903,"Your own delicacy will not allow you, I am convinced, to attempt to trace me."
16904,"It executed, says Brewster, all the natural movements and gestures, it ate and drank with avidity, performed all the quick motions of the head and throat which are peculiar to the duck, and like it muddled the water which it drank with its bill."
16905,"I wandered for ever about these lovely solitudes, gathering flower after flower Ond' era pinta tutta la mia viaB singing as I might the wild melodies of the country, or occupied by pleasant day dreams."
16906,"""No, nothing peculiar,"" I said; ""nothing more, at least, than we both saw stated in the paper."""
16907,"It was acutely uncanny, even when frightful and uncanny things were common, to encounter so blankly clueless a scene after such overwhelming occurrences; and we moved about beneath the leaden, darkening sky with that tragic directionless zeal which results from a combined sense of futility and necessity of action."
16908,"And now for the first time my memory records verbal discourse, Warren addressing me at length in his mellow tenor voice; a voice singularly unperturbed by our awesome surroundings."
16909,"We presume that the present absence is a freak of the same nature, and that, at the expiration of a week, or perhaps of a month, we shall have her among us again."""
16910,But again why need this impediment have been produced?
16911,"In the meantime the balloon arose like a lark, and, soaring far away above the city, at length drifted quietly behind a cloud similar to that from which it had so oddly emerged, and was thus lost forever to the wondering eyes of the good citizens of Rotterdam."
16912,"But if his countenance was more sorrowful, his voice was more cheerful than that of his sister, especially when he addressed the old man."
16913,"I caught the night train to Arkham, and the next day talked long and earnestly with government officials there; a process I later repeated in Boston."
16914,Are there other rudimental thinking beings than man?
16915,She grew capricious; her gentle conduct towards him was exchanged for asperity and repulsive coldness.
16916,Life was then brilliant; I began to learn to hope and what brings a more bitter despair to the heart than hope destroyed?
16917,"I soon, however, grew accustomed to it, and my uneasiness wore off."
16918,"I was too much exhausted to speak, so I merely regarded him with an imploring air."
16919,On the upper stone lay a white petticoat; on the second a silk scarf.
16920,"All she did, however, was to stand up in a corner, by the fireplace, and sing out incessantly at the top of her voice, ""Cock a doodle de dooooooh"" And now came the climax the catastrophe of the drama."
16921,I concealed nothing felt that I had a right to conceal nothing from her confiding affection.
16922,"The fireplaces are large and deep, with fierce crooked looking fire dogs."
16923,From the car below you know the prospect is not so comprehensive you can see little vertically.
16924,"The stars came out, shedding their ineffectual glimmerings on the light widowed earth."
16925,"But before my fears could crystallise into action I had fallen asleep, and gazed in dreams upon the city in the valley, cold and dead under a shroud of hideous shadow."
16926,"But it is now made known that, at the very period, or about the very period, in which it is supposed that the girl was assassinated, an outrage similar in nature to that endured by the deceased, although less in extent, was perpetuated, by a gang of young ruffians, upon the person of a second young female."
16927,"Good night, my sister."
16928,"He had once been a great dandy, and people said he still wore the frock coated finery of the Edwardian age, curiously adapted to certain deformities."
16929,Spoke quick and unevenly.
16930,"Some of these were sealed and intact, but others had nearly vanished, leaving the silver handles and plates isolated amidst certain curious heaps of whitish dust."
16931,But revenge kept me alive; I dared not die and leave my adversary in being.
16932,"Night closed in, and it began to rain."
16933,"""I will tell you in a few words; but, before I begin, let me caution you that this is an affair demanding the greatest secrecy, and that I should most probably lose the position I now hold, were it known that I confided it to any one."""
16934,"I was scientifically interested in those dolphins; for though the ordinary Delphinus delphis is a cetacean mammal, unable to subsist without air, I watched one of the swimmers closely for two hours, and did not see him alter his submerged condition."
16935,"Down, down, down it came, closer and yet closer."
16936,I often thought that I would instantly return and take you along with me to some fertile island where we should live at peace for ever.
16937,Yet let me not be misapprehended.
16938,"It seemed that he was often absent from his bed, and that the creaking of his floor at certain hours of the night was remarked by the man in the room below."
16939,The cold is merely nothing.
16940,"I know not why my dreams were so wild that night; but ere the waning and fantastically gibbous moon had risen far above the eastern plain, I was awake in a cold perspiration, determined to sleep no more."
16941,"Strangers and Tegeans stood aghast, looking from the wreckage to the great, sinister tree whose aspect was so weirdly human and whose roots reached so queerly into the sculptured sepulchre of Kalos."
16942,With me were two faithful and muscular men for whom I had sent when the time came; men long associated with me in my ghastly explorations because of their peculiar fitness.
16943,"When I thought of these expressions, on the part of my friend, I confess that I felt indescribably puzzled."
16944,"Now about our Maisons de Sante, it is clear that some ignoramus has misled you."
16945,"When, however, I asked them what connexion with France or its language the house could have, they confessed themselves as frankly baffled and ignorant as I. Archer knew nothing, and all that Miss Harris could say was that an old allusion her grandfather, Dutee Harris, had heard of might have shed a little light."
16946,"But his wife had said she found a funny tin thing in one of the beds when she fixed the rooms at noon, and maybe that was it."
16947,"Fronting the entrance, and elevated a little above his companions, sat a personage who appeared to be the president of the table."
16948,"The weather was warm, and he was buried with indecent haste in one of the public cemeteries."
16949,"It was only when he was absent from me that his passion subdued him, that he clinched his hands knit his brows and with haggard looks called for death to his despair, raving wildly, untill exhausted he sank down nor was revived untill I joined him."
16950,"He is calm ""calm as a smile from Lady Bury."""
16951,"Neighbouring houses, it must be added, seemed entirely free from the noxious quality."
16952,"She uttered some words in a loud voice, and the youth joined her, who also expressed surprise."
16953,"But my revenge was sure, sudden, and complete."
16954,The place was an ancient cemetery; so ancient that I trembled at the manifold signs of immemorial years.
16955,It was dark all dark.
16956,"Abased, humbled to the dust as I then was, it is probable that I should have resented this galling language by immediate personal violence, had not my whole attention been at the moment arrested by a fact of the most startling character."
16957,The populace encored.
16958,"Perceiving the weakness of Raymond, I was afraid of ill consequences from the pressure of the crowd on his landing."
16959,They had shape for did not this star fashioned image prove it?
16960,"""I do not know,"" said the man, ""what the custom of the English may be, but it is the custom of the Irish to hate villains."""
16961,The night of the first revelation was a sultry one.
16962,"The squatters there, mostly primitive but good natured descendants of Lafitte's men, were in the grip of stark terror from an unknown thing which had stolen upon them in the night."
16963,"The countenance was a surpassingly beautiful one Those large luminous eyes that proud Grecian nose those dark luxuriant curls ""Ah"" said I, exultingly to myself, ""this is indeed the speaking image of my beloved"" I turned the reverse, and discovered the words ""Eugenie Lalande aged twenty seven years and seven months."""
16964,It is well that no explanation shall ever reach them.
16965,"Some were royalists from prejudice and ancient affection, and there were many moderately inclined who feared alike the capricious tyranny of the popular party, and the unbending despotism of the aristocrats."
16966,"Men made perilous journies to possess themselves of earth's splendid trifles, gems and gold."
16967,"For myself, however, I was mentally discussing certain topics which had formed matter for conversation between us at an earlier period of the evening; I mean the affair of the Rue Morgue, and the mystery attending the murder of Marie Rogêt."
16968,"The worst thing for a while was keeping Joe Mazurewicz quiet; for the brooding loomfixer would never stay sober, and was constantly whining and muttering about spectral and terrible things."
16969,"In respect to the grass having 'grown around and over some of them,' it is obvious that the fact could only have been ascertained from the words, and thus from the recollections, of two small boys; for these boys removed the articles and took them home before they had been seen by a third party."
16970,"ah yes upon the whole I think you had better not be too severe with the poor fellow don't flog him, Jupiter he can't very well stand it but can you form no idea of what has occasioned this illness, or rather this change of conduct?"
16971,"Had I right, for my own benefit, to inflict this curse upon everlasting generations?"
16972,"You yourself sickened, and passed into the grave; and thither your constant Una speedily followed you."
16973,"For a few moments I gazed with delight on her dark eyes, fringed by deep lashes, and her lovely lips; but presently my rage returned; I remembered that I was forever deprived of the delights that such beautiful creatures could bestow and that she whose resemblance I contemplated would, in regarding me, have changed that air of divine benignity to one expressive of disgust and affright."
16974,The police are at fault they have failed to procure the slightest clew.
16975,"My friend was more wrought upon than I had suspected, for at this touch of harmless theatricalism he started neurotically away from me and actually cried out with a sort of gulping gasp which released a strain of previous repression."
16976,"I cannot describe the rapturous delight with which I turned from political brawls at home, and the physical evils of distant countries, to my own dear home, to the selected abode of goodness and love; to peace, and the interchange of every sacred sympathy."
16977,His passage to power had been full of pain to both.
16978,Being little or nothing better than a huge foolscap turned upside down.
16979,That this could be accomplished without loss of life was in many cases conceivable.
16980,"""Merrival,"" I said, ""it is long since we have seen you you must return to Windsor with me Lady Idris desires to see you, you will not refuse her request come home with me."""
16981,"Such were the idle tales which had made the villagers leave Kilderry, and when I heard them I did not wonder that Denys Barry had refused to listen."
16982,"In his amendment he proposed, that an exception should be made in the bill in favour of any person who claimed the sovereign power in right of the earls of Windsor."
16983,"In Kate, however, I had a firm friend, and I knew it."
16984,"Monsieur Le Blanc was not unaware of the advantages to be derived from the attendance of the fair Marie in his perfumery; and his liberal proposals were accepted eagerly by the girl, although with somewhat more of hesitation by Madame."
16985,"Something beyond their experience was evidently confronting them, for so far as they could ascertain, the void below was infinite."
16986,"Remains of Them, he said the deathless Chinamen had told him, were still to be found as Cyclopean stones on islands in the Pacific."
16987,One by one these symptoms struck me; I became convinced that the moment I had so much desired was about to arrive and that I was dying.
16988,"In the tower of the great temple the priests held revels, and in pavilions without the walls the princes of neighbouring lands made merry."
16989,We took leave of them in the Protectoral Palace.
16990,"The labourers were not as happy as they might have been, for most of them seemed uneasy over some dream which they had had, yet which they tried in vain to remember."
16991,"Since the original publication of Hans Pfaall, I find that Mr. Green, of Nassau balloon notoriety, and other late aeronauts, deny the assertions of Humboldt, in this respect, and speak of a decreasing inconvenience, precisely in accordance with the theory here urged in a mere spirit of banter."
16992,There was a formula a sort of list of things to say and do which I recognised as something black and forbidden; something which I had read of before in furtive paragraphs of mixed abhorrence and fascination penned by those strange ancient delvers into the universe's guarded secrets whose decaying texts I loved to absorb.
16993,"Touching the derivation of the name Vondervotteimittiss, I confess myself, with sorrow, equally at fault."
16994,"Very suddenly, and by some inconceivable impulse, I became intensely imbued with personal interest in what was going on."
16995,"I saw Lord Raymond on his charger; a small company of officers had gathered about him; and behind was a promiscuous concourse of soldiers and subalterns, their discipline lost, their arms thrown aside; no music sounded, no banners streamed."
16996,"A wave of almost abnormal horror swept over me, and invested with a terrible but unexplainable singularity the flashlight glimpsed dust prints made by the intruder who had lately tried my door from this room."
16997,"He was thankful that the windows were just too high to permit of peering in, and drew the dark curtains carefully down over each one."
16998,"It is through the spirit of this principle, if not precisely through its letter, that modern science has resolved to calculate upon the unforeseen."
16999,"He had, he said, noticed me several times at my wanderings; and inferred that I resembled him in loving the vestiges of former years."
17000,"But such was the aspect of Crawford Tillinghast on the night his half coherent message brought me to his door after my weeks of exile; such the spectre that trembled as it admitted me, candle in hand, and glanced furtively over its shoulder as if fearful of unseen things in the ancient, lonely house set back from Benevolent Street."
17001,"This pair, shunned by all honest folk, were suspected of the most hideous practices."
17002,All the ex queen's friends were his friends; no week passed that he did not hold consultations with her at Windsor.
17003,"We come,"" he exclaimed, springing forwards, ""for what should we wait?"
17004,"I pressed it to my lips, while the rough soldiers gathered around, mourning over this worthiest prey of death, as if regret and endless lamentation could re illumine the extinguished spark, or call to its shattered prison house of flesh the liberated spirit."
17005,All that I recalled of a classic youth came to my lips as the horrors of the situation roused my deepest superstitions.
17006,"""Alas My father,"" said I, ""how little do you know me."
17007,How such a sound could have been heard in the last few hours without arousing all the Miskatonic Valley was more than the honest physician could say.
17008,"We visited the so called Elysian Fields and Avernus: and wandered through various ruined temples, baths, and classic spots; at length we entered the gloomy cavern of the Cumaean Sibyl."
17009,"If, on the other hand, he could be restored, our fame would be brilliantly and perpetually established."
17010,"At first indeed this wanton spirit played a false part appearing with sable wings gloomy countenance seemed to take a pleasure in exagerating all my miseries and as small hopes arose to snatch them from me give me in their place gigantic fears which under her fairy hand appeared close, impending unavoidable sometimes she would cruelly leave me while I was thus on the verge of madness and without consoling me leave me nought but heavy leaden sleep but at other times she would wilily link less unpleasing thoughts to these most dreadful ones before I was aware place hopes before me futile but consoling One day this lovely spirit whose name as she told me was Fantasia came to me in one of her consolotary moods her wings which seemed coloured by her tone of mind were not gay but beautiful like that of the partridge her lovely eyes although they ever burned with an unquenshable fire were shaded softened by her heavy lids the black long fringe of her eye lashes She thus addressed me You mourn for the loss of those you love."
17011,"He easily eluded me and said, ""Be calm I entreat you to hear me before you give vent to your hatred on my devoted head."
17012,"But my friend was in greater danger than I, and through my fear I felt a vague resentment that he should deem me capable of deserting him under such circumstances."
17013,"In the contemplation of the heavenly bodies it struck me forcibly that I could not distinguish a star with nearly as much precision, when I gazed on it with earnest, direct and undeviating attention, as when I suffered my eye only to glance in its vicinity alone."
17014,"By these means I got to be well known as a man to be trusted; and this is one half the battle, let me tell you, in trade."
17015,"The device is that of a single individual; and this brings us to the fact that 'between the thicket and the river, the rails of the fences were found taken down, and the ground bore evident traces of some heavy burden having been dragged along it' But would a number of men have put themselves to the superfluous trouble of taking down a fence, for the purpose of dragging through it a corpse which they might have lifted over any fence in an instant?"
17016,"It was, Johansen said, like a great barn door; and they all felt that it was a door because of the ornate lintel, threshold, and jambs around it, though they could not decide whether it lay flat like a trap door or slantwise like an outside cellar door."
17017,I learned also the names of the cottagers themselves.
17018,"She had lived for some years in an alms house, and on fine Sundays her threshold was constantly beset by a crowd, seeking her advice and listening to her admonitions."
17019,"Indeed, I cannot help admiring the animal for the excellent use he is making of his feet."""
17020,"I had the newspaper in my hand, and, as usual, had turned to the intelligence from Greece."
17021,"Raymond looked keenly at him; he could read benignity only in his gentle lineaments; he turned to me, observing with scorn my moody and stern demeanour."
17022,I removed the bed and examined the corpse.
17023,"For full three seconds I could glimpse that pandaemoniac sight, and in those seconds I saw a vista which will ever afterward torment me in dreams."
17024,"Looking up at the house from outside, he had thought at first that Gilman's window was dark; but then he had seen the faint violet glow within."
17025,"If you can never be happy, can you never bestow happiness?"
17026,"Certainly the Ryland that advanced towards us now, bore small resemblance to the powerful, ironical, seemingly fearless canvasser for the first rank among Englishmen."
17027,He is alone with the ghost of the departed.
17028,"In the end, though, luck favoured us; for one day we heard of an almost ideal case in the potter's field; a brawny young workman drowned only the morning before in Sumner's Pond, and buried at the town's expense without delay or embalming."
17029,The alienists soon agreed that abnormal dreams were the foundation of the trouble; dreams whose vividness could for a time completely dominate the waking mind of this basically inferior man.
17030,"Henry Wheeler strained his eye at the telescope, but saw only the three grotesquely silhouetted human figures on the peak, all moving their arms furiously in strange gestures as their incantation drew near its culmination."
17031,"His remains, notwithstanding the troubled state of Italy, were taken to Ravenna for interment; but being interred in the suburb of Classe, were exhumed and ridiculed by the Lombard Duke of Spoleto, who took his skull to King Autharis for use as a wassail bowl."
17032,What prompted me then to disturb the memory of the buried dead?
17033,"""Sit down, my friend,"" said Dupin."
17034,Know you not how the secret of Alchemy was solved?
17035,"Of all the women whom I have ever known, she, the outwardly calm, the ever placid Ligeia, was the most violently a prey to the tumultuous vultures of stern passion."
17036,"As the day progressed, the ground lost some of its stickiness, and seemed likely to dry sufficiently for travelling purposes in a short time."
17037,The atmosphere was intolerably close.
17038,"This tribe, after destroying most of the edifices and killing the live beings, had carried off the stuffed goddess which had been the object of their quest; the white ape goddess which the strange beings worshipped, and which was held by Congo tradition to be the form of one who had reigned as a princess among those beings."
17039,"In time the hole grew so large that he ventured to try his body in it now and then, shifting about so that the coffins beneath him rocked and creaked."
17040,"At all events methought that the wound could be healed; and, if they remained together, it would be so."
17041,"""I arose,"" continued Bedloe, regarding the Doctor with an air of profound astonishment ""I arose, as you say, and descended into the city."
17042,You are the only one we can trust.
17043,"When she perceived the wild or pathetic appeal of his expressive countenance, she would relent, and for a while resume her ancient kindness."
17044,"By the following fact, some color was given to the suspicion thus thrown upon Beauvais."
17045,"A singular alteration took place in regard to the direction of the balloon, and although fully anticipated, afforded me the most unequivocal delight."
17046,"But now my mother, or, if you will, my mother's lessons, awaken within me."
17047,"In attempting ourselves an explanation of the Automaton, we will, in the first place, endeavor to show how its operations are effected, and afterwards describe, as briefly as possible, the nature of the observations from which we have deduced our result."
17048,His third was the contempt of ambition.
17049,"Yet it was less painful to see him thus, than to find him fulfilling the animal functions uninterruptedly, his mind sick the while."
17050,"There were times, indeed, when I thought his unceasingly agitated mind was laboring with some oppressive secret, to divulge which he struggled for the necessary courage."
17051,"I was a little dazed by this coincidence, but did not become terrified."
17052,"If they did, my stratagem must have deceived them, for they passed on across the moonlit space without varying their course meanwhile croaking and jabbering in some hateful guttural patois I could not identify."
17053,He was a boy of singular talent and fancy.
17054,"EVERYBODY knows, in a general way, that the finest place in the world is or, alas, was the Dutch borough of Vondervotteimittiss."
17055,And was I really as mad as the whole world would believe me to be if I disclosed the object of my suspicions?
17056,"I replied in the same language, with a feeble voice, ""I believe I am; but if it be all true, if indeed I did not dream, I am sorry that I am still alive to feel this misery and horror."""
17057,"Horrified, he had taken to the woods in a vague effort to escape from the scene of what must have been his crime."
17058,But soon I endeavoured to extract patience for her from the ideas she suggested.
17059,"A letter came unawares, Perdita read it."
17060,"""This account rather alarmed us, and we continued to search for him until night fell, when Elizabeth conjectured that he might have returned to the house."
17061,"I was indifferent, therefore, to my school fellows in general; but I united myself in the bonds of the closest friendship to one among them."
17062,"Seems they hankered arter mixin' with the folks, an' havin' j'int ceremonies on the big days May Eve an' Hallowe'en."
17063,I have been miserably mistaken in imagining that I could conquer my love for you; I never can.
17064,"When happy, inanimate nature had the power of bestowing on me the most delightful sensations."
17065,"Once I went up to the garret during theatre hours, when Zann was away, but the door was locked."
17066,"He was rather a ""find"" a rich and high spirited youth who would ""go the limit"" in anything he undertook at least, that was the verdict of Pete Schultz, Sheehan's ""runner"", who had come across the boy at Lawrence College, in the small town of Appleton, Wisconsin."
17067,"The scenery which presented itself on all sides, although scarcely entitled to be called grand, had about it an indescribable and to me a delicious aspect of dreary desolation."
17068,"Had my uncle, in his latter years, become credulous of the most superficial impostures?"
17069,"It was his view that only our normal, objective experiences possess any aesthetic significance, and that it is the province of the artist not so much to rouse strong emotion by action, ecstasy, and astonishment, as to maintain a placid interest and appreciation by accurate, detailed transcripts of every day affairs."
17070,"Now this shape was peculiar; and no sooner had I seen it, than I took credit to myself for the accuracy of my guessing."
17071,Ryland had shewn that he preferred him.
17072,"As it was, the sweet girl's generous nature was roused to defend, and ally herself with, my despised cause."
17073,Yet I soon subordinated all my fears to my growing curiosity and fascination.
17074,"I have thought proper to premise thus much, lest the incredible tale I have to tell should be considered rather the raving of a crude imagination, than the positive experience of a mind to which the reveries of fancy have been a dead letter and a nullity."
17075,Farewell I must now leave you for a few hours.
17076,"I replied in a calm voice but how far from calm was the thought imaged by my still words ""Never I can never consent that Lady Idris should be united to one who does not love her."" ""Because you love her yourself."""
17077,"One night as I sat, half stupified, in a den of more than infamy, my attention was suddenly drawn to some black object, reposing upon the head of one of the immense hogsheads of Gin, or of Rum, which constituted the chief furniture of the apartment."
17078,"Old Bugs, springing up from the crouching position in which he had hitherto been, leaped at the youth and dashed from his hands the uplifted glass, almost simultaneously attacking the tray of bottles and glasses with his mop, and scattering the contents upon the floor in a confusion of odoriferous fluid and broken bottles and tumblers."
17079,"Ah, dear sister, how can I answer this question?"
17080,"They did not see that good and evil and beauty and ugliness are only ornamental fruits of perspective, whose sole value lies in their linkage to what chance made our fathers think and feel, and whose finer details are different for every race and culture."
17081,"Outsiders visit Dunwich as seldom as possible, and since a certain season of horror all the signboards pointing toward it have been taken down."
17082,"Later, by virtue of its sheer impressiveness, it had found subconscious expression in dreams, in the bas relief, and in the terrible statue I now beheld; so that his imposture upon my uncle had been a very innocent one."
17083,As the dead man was thrown overboard there occurred two incidents which created much disturbance amongst the crew.
17084,"""The moon's actual distance from the earth was the first thing to be attended to."
17085,"He is, perhaps, the most really energetic human being now alive but that is only when nobody sees him."
17086,"And the heart of that plotting was in The Street, whose crumbling houses teemed with alien makers of discord and echoed with the plans and speeches of those who yearned for the appointed day of blood, flame, and crime."
17087,"Wal, even ef I hain't told nobody nothin' yet, I'm a goin' to naow You jest set still an' listen to me, boy this is what I ain't never told nobody. . . ."
17088,"Thus this towering spirit who had excited interest and high expectation in all who knew and could value him became at once, as it were, extinct."
17089,"Dr. Moneypenny says that S. stands for stale, and that D. U. K. spells duck, but it don't, that S. D. U. K. stands for Stale Duck and not for Lord Brougham's society but then Dr. Moneypenny is such a queer man that I am never sure when he is telling me the truth."
17090,"The orphan and neglected son of Verney, was on the eve of being linked to the mechanism of society by a golden chain, and to enter into all the duties and affections of life."
17091,"There certainly is a strange kind of streak in the Innsmouth folks today I don't know how to explain it, but it sort of makes you crawl."
17092,Only the din of street cars in the thoroughfare below proved a serious annoyance.
17093,"The foreigners whom we had among us, who had fled from the plague in their own country, now saw their last asylum invaded; and, fear making them garrulous, they described to eager listeners the miseries they had beheld in cities visited by the calamity, and gave fearful accounts of the insidious and irremediable nature of the disease."
17094,"That was Darius Peck, the nonagenarian, whose grave was not far from the tomb."
17095,"The words ""gem"" and ""bijou,"" however, used in reference to my composition, struck me as being, in some degree, feeble, and seemed to me to be deficient in force."
17096,Elizabeth's heart rending eloquence failed to move the judges from their settled conviction in the criminality of the saintly sufferer.
17097,"The poor animal recognised me, licked my hand, crept close to its lord, and died."
17098,"He saw that Rice, from the party's point of vantage above and behind the entity, had an excellent chance of spreading the potent powder with marvellous effect."
17099,"Sometimes he and Paul Choynski and Landlord Dombrowski thought they saw that light seeping out of cracks in the sealed loft above the young gentleman's room, but they had all agreed not to talk about that."
17100,"There he stayed long, gazing out over the bright harbour where the ripples sparkled beneath an unknown sun, and where rode lightly the galleys from far places over the water."
17101,He loved her with passion and her tenderness had a charm for him that would not permit him to think of aught but her.
17102,The poet says that all through the hours before dawn he beheld sordid ruins but indistinctly in the glare of the arc lights; that there loomed above the wreckage another picture wherein he could descry moonlight and fair houses and elms and oaks and maples of dignity.
17103,"Pratol on this very day, last year, to pay my parting respects."""
17104,"Through his puzzlement a voice piped, and he started again at its familiarity after long years."
17105,But I cannot possibly comprehend the particulars of this frightful mystery.
17106,"If you really say this, my questions are answered and all my doubts satisfied."
17107,"For the nebulous utterances concerning a nameless, unsuspected race of jungle hybrids he had a peculiar feeling of mingled terror and attraction; speculating on the possible basis of such a fancy, and seeking to obtain light among the more recent data gleaned by his great grandfather and Samuel Seaton amongst the Ongas."
17108,"And swarming loathsomely on aërial galleries I saw the yellow, squint eyed people of that city, robed horribly in orange and red, and dancing insanely to the pounding of fevered kettle drums, the clatter of obscene crotala, and the maniacal moaning of muted horns whose ceaseless dirges rose and fell undulantly like the waves of an unhallowed ocean of bitumen."
17109,"I did it for so long that life faded to a far memory, and I became one with the moles and grubs of nighted depths."
17110,"You men know that those Whateleys were wizards well, this thing is a thing of wizardry, and must be put down by the same means."
17111,"We cannot calculate on his forces like that of an engine; and, though an impulse draw with a forty horse power at what appears willing to yield to one, yet in contempt of calculation the movement is not effected."
17112,That very evening I fell upon my knees at the feet of my father.
17113,Her voice was suffocated with sobs.
17114,"On being charged with the fact, the poor girl confirmed the suspicion in a great measure by her extreme confusion of manner."
17115,There are six lights as we have said before in all.
17116,Of his methods in the intervening five years I dare not speak.
17117,"After a time he became noticeably unbalanced, gazing for hours at his ivory image and weaving fanciful stories of the lost and forgotten things under the sea."
17118,"One day near noon, after a profound sleep begun in a whiskey debauch at about five of the previous afternoon, the man had roused himself most suddenly; with ululations so horrible and unearthly that they brought several neighbours to his cabin a filthy sty where he dwelt with a family as indescribable as himself."
17119,Dr. Houghton drew shrunken lids over the glazing grey eyes as the tumult of birds faded imperceptibly to silence.
17120,"I had been travelling for some time amongst the people of the Miskatonic Valley in quest of certain genealogical data; and from the remote, devious, and problematical nature of my course, had deemed it convenient to employ a bicycle despite the lateness of the season."
17121,"This challenge being accepted, a small table is prepared for the antagonist, and placed close by the rope, but on the spectators' side of it, and so situated as not to prevent the company from obtaining a full view of the Automaton."
17122,Chapter Clerval then put the following letter into my hands.
17123,"Yet could I, in justice, or even in possibility, refuse this demand?"
17124,"The possession of these treasures gave me extreme delight; I now continually studied and exercised my mind upon these histories, whilst my friends were employed in their ordinary occupations."
17125,"The whole company at once started to their feet, and, with the exception of myself and Ritzner, took their departure."
17126,"There the scions of a conquering race indeed flourished free from the restrictions of their fellows, but cowered in an appalling slavery to the dismal phantasms of their own minds."
17127,Soon afterwards I bade him farewell.
17128,Possibly Gilman ought not to have studied so hard.
17129,All that had so long engaged my attention suddenly grew despicable.
17130,"It was in the house of Dexter, in the northern part of the town near the present intersection of North Main and Olney Streets, on the occasion of Canonchet's raid of March , , during King Philip's War; and the astute sachem, recognising it at once as a thing of singular venerableness and dignity, sent it as a symbol of alliance to a faction of the Pequots in Connecticut with whom he was negotiating."
17131,"The grocery boy had prepared me for it, yet the reality left me none the less bewildered and disturbed."
17132,A word with any outsider was a relief to him.
17133,"The ""Goosetherumfoodle"" deeply ""regretted this very natural accident,"" and promised, moreover, an insertion of the genuine ""Hey Diddle Diddle"" in the very next number of the Magazine."
17134,"But after all, the attic was not the most terrible part of the house."
17135,"There are the stately avenues and retirements of Versailles; Italian terraces; and a various mixed old English style, which bears some relation to the domestic Gothic or English Elizabethan architecture."
17136,A murmur of surprise and horror ran through the assembly.
17137,"I resolved to be more cautious, more reserved."
17138,"By the aid of these we then busied our souls in dreams reading, writing, or conversing, until warned by the clock of the advent of the true Darkness."
17139,"And do I dare to ask of you to undertake my pilgrimage, to endure the hardships that I have undergone?"
17140,"You were hereafter to be hailed as the benefactors of your species, your names adored as belonging to brave men who encountered death for honour and the benefit of mankind."
17141,"She thought he did well to assert his own will, but she wished that will to have been more intelligible to the multitude."
17142,"He would sputter and fume, exploding into sesquipedalian admonitions and strange oaths, and animated by a frightful earnestness which brought a shudder to more than one drug racked mind in the crowded room."
17143,"I must go, Lionel the Gods will it; and I must."
17144,"For an instant the ship was befouled by an acrid and blinding green cloud, and then there was only a venomous seething astern; where God in heaven the scattered plasticity of that nameless sky spawn was nebulously recombining in its hateful original form, whilst its distance widened every second as the Alert gained impetus from its mounting steam."
17145,"Born on Candlemas nine months after May Eve of , when the talk about the queer earth noises reached clear to Arkham What walked on the mountains that May Night?"
17146,I was silent: all was silent except the roaring of the sea which became louder and more dreadful.
17147,"He showed unparalleled malignity and selfishness in evil; he destroyed my friends; he devoted to destruction beings who possessed exquisite sensations, happiness, and wisdom; nor do I know where this thirst for vengeance may end."
17148,"I inquired the way to the inn, but no one replied."
17149,"Thus, with me, yesterday was Sunday thus, with you, to day is Sunday and thus, with Pratt, to morrow will be Sunday."
17150,"I well knew that if any other had communicated such a relation to me, I should have looked upon it as the ravings of insanity."
17151,"The expression on its features was repellent in the extreme, savouring at once of death, bestiality, and malevolence."
17152,"Onct I tried suthin' funny here, young Sir, don't git skeert all I done was ter look at the picter afore I kilt the sheep for market killin' sheep was kinder more fun arter lookin' at it "" The tone of the old man now sank very low, sometimes becoming so faint that his words were hardly audible."
17153,"A chess player, for example, does the one without effort at the other."
17154,"He was a Turkish merchant and had inhabited Paris for many years, when, for some reason which I could not learn, he became obnoxious to the government."
17155,"He could not recall having seen the original of this thing except in his own dream bas relief, but the outlines had formed themselves insensibly under his hands."
17156,"That I had previously overestimated our depth, I was sure; but none the less we must still be deep enough to make these phenomena remarkable."
17157,"Those churches were very odd all violently disavowed by their respective denominations elsewhere, and apparently using the queerest kind of ceremonials and clerical vestments."
17158,There was a rope about the animal's neck.
17159,"For many days I have longed to disclose the mysterious presentiments that weigh on me, although I fear that you will ridicule them."
17160,"The grand jury rejected the bill, on its being proved that I was on the Orkney Islands at the hour the body of my friend was found; and a fortnight after my removal I was liberated from prison."
17161,During three months I have been employed in this task.
17162,You do not question me properly.
17163,"Our vessel was a beautiful ship of about four hundred tons, copper fastened, and built at Bombay of Malabar teak."
17164,"Very suddenly Barzai went out of Atal's sight, scaling a hideous cliff that seemed to bulge outward and block the path for any climber not inspired of earth's gods."
17165,"From the moment Perdita had sufficiently recovered herself to form any plan of action, she had laid one down, which now she prepared to follow."
17166,"The words ""strange"" ""singular"" and other similar expressions, excited my curiosity."
17167,"A wild luxuriance of foliage, utterly unknown before, burst out upon every vegetable thing."
17168,"At length, upon a suggestion of my uncle's, I decided to try the spot nocturnally; and one stormy midnight ran the beams of an electric torch over the mouldy floor with its uncanny shapes and distorted, half phosphorescent fungi."
17169,The disillusion had been gradual.
17170,A middle aged gentleman arrives in town from parts unknown.
17171,"It would have been blasphemous to leave such bones in the world, so I went back with a sack and took them to the tomb behind the house."
17172,"It was indeed somewhat familiar, for the unusual part was superimposed upon the usual terrestrial scene much as a cinema view may be thrown upon the painted curtain of a theatre."
17173,"This old woman had reached her hundredth year; her skin was shrivelled, her form was bent and lost in extreme decrepitude; but as still from year to year she continued in existence, out living many younger and stronger, she began to feel as if she were to live for ever."
17174,"I began to get uneasy, and worked away with all my might, for I verily believe the idiots supposed that I had entered into a compact with the devil, and that, in short, what I was now doing was nothing better than it should be."
17175,"The Persian, Arabic, and Sanskrit languages engaged his attention, and I was easily induced to enter on the same studies."
17176,"Opposite the large window was an enormous Dutch fireplace with scriptural tiles representing the prodigal son, and opposite the narrow window was a spacious bed built into the wall."
17177,"Here I may even cease to repine, and may add my tardy consent to the decree which has taken him from me."
17178,"I mean Moissart and Voissart; and for de matter of dat, I mean Croissart and Froisart, too, if I only tink proper to mean it."
17179,"Guileless himself, Adrian feared no deceit."
17180,"Thus, while Raymond had been wrapt in visions of power and fame, while he looked forward to entire dominion over the elements and the mind of man, the territory of his own heart escaped his notice; and from that unthought of source arose the mighty torrent that overwhelmed his will, and carried to the oblivious sea, fame, hope, and happiness."
17181,"He is irrecoverably mad."""
17182,"Zaffre, digested in aqua regia, and diluted with four times its weight of water, is sometimes employed; a green tint results."
17183,"""By ten o'clock I found that I had very little to occupy my immediate attention."
17184,"The person of the stranger let me call him by this title, who to all the world was still a stranger the person of the stranger is one of these subjects."
17185,"As to the how of the surrender, no language can be more explicit."
17186,"I was afeard never did no pryin' arter that awful night, an' never see one of them clost to in all my life."
17187,"Ledges and outcroppings of rock afforded fairly easy foot holds for a descent, whilst after a drop of a few hundred feet, the declivity became very gradual."
17188,"His chief delight, however, was found in the perusal of an exceedingly rare and curious book in quarto Gothic the manual of a forgotten church the Vigiliae Mortuorum secundum Chorum Ecclesiae Maguntinae."
17189,This wall had gates of iron.
17190,"For our own purpose, therefore, if not for the purpose of justice, it is indispensable that our first step should be the determination of the identity of the corpse with the Marie Rogêt who is missing."
17191,"Twelve years after succeeding to his title he married the daughter of his gamekeeper, a person said to be of gypsy extraction, but before his son was born joined the navy as a common sailor, completing the general disgust which his habits and mesalliance had begun."
17192,A spectator would have thought of Francis and Charles.
17193,"They consider only their own ideas of ingenuity; and, in searching for anything hidden, advert only to the modes in which they would have hidden it."
17194,"Was there indeed anarchy in the sublime universe of Adrian's thoughts, did madness scatter the well appointed legions, and was he no longer the lord of his own soul?"
17195,"She leads them to truth wisdom untill the time comes when they shall be fitted for the journey through the universe which all must one day undertake farewell And now, gentlest reader I must beg your indulgence I am a being too weak to record the words of Diotima her matchless wisdom heavenly eloquence."
17196,"I staggered onward for some time, when I stumbled and fell."
17197,"I felt that those walls and overhanging gables of mildewed brick and fungous plaster and timber with fishy, eye like, diamond paned windows that leered could hardly desist from advancing and crushing me . . ."
17198,"Walls, columns, and architraves of living fire blazed effulgently around the spot where I seemed to float in air; extending upward to an infinitely high vaulted dome of indescribable splendour."
17199,"Sordid care, avaunt menial labours, and pains, slight in themselves, but too gigantic for our exhausted strength, shall make no part of our ephemeral existences."
17200,"The villages were decorated by triumphal arches of greenery by day, and lamps by night; tapestry waved from the windows, the ground was strewed with flowers, and the name of Raymond, joined to that of Greece, was echoed in the Evive of the peasant crowd."
17201,"Of great size and cunning workmanship must the statue be, for it was to form a wonder of nations and a goal of travellers."
17202,"Firmly though respectfully they signified their refusal to revisit the chasm, or indeed to work further in the mine until it might be sealed."
17203,"In the morning it had been underfoot; afternoon found it rising in the southeast, and now it was roughly south but wheeling toward the west."
17204,"I can see it a little when I make the Voorish sign or blow the powder of Ibn Ghazi at it, and it is near like them at May Eve on the Hill."
17205,"Of his vast collection of strange, rare books on forbidden subjects I have read all that are written in the languages of which I am master; but these are few as compared with those in languages I cannot understand."
17206,"Early in the day, Argyropylo was wounded dangerously, and Raymond assumed the command of the whole army."
17207,Mr. 's article concludes with the following words.
17208,"This time, however, they seemed to proceed from persons rapidly approaching."
17209,"The simple character of those inductions by which he had disentangled the mystery never having been explained even to the Prefect, or to any other individual than myself, of course it is not surprising that the affair was regarded as little less than miraculous, or that the Chevalier's analytical abilities acquired for him the credit of intuition."
17210,"We all know what is meant by ""damning with faint praise,"" and, on the other hand, who could fail seeing through the covert purpose of the ""Daddy"" that of glorifying with feeble abuse?"
17211,"His principal topics were those of the day, and nothing that fell from him led me to suspect his scientific attainments."
17212,"I paint in the cellar, where the inspiration is thickest, but I've other rooms furnished on the ground floor."
17213,"She was dressed, however, in exquisite taste and then I had no doubt that she had captivated my friend's heart by the more enduring graces of the intellect and soul."
17214,"My pressure took the opener off guard, for the thing shut as I pushed, so that I could slip the well conditioned bolt as I had done with the other door."
17215,"Every face but one shewed nobility and reverence, but that one reflected the mockery of the pit."
17216,"How delicious to me were the words of his letter that concerned me: ""I cannot tell you,"" it said, ""how ardently I desire to see my Mathilda."
17217,"Schlumberger was suddenly taken ill, and during his illness there was no exhibition of the Chess Player."
17218,"Shall I go alone, or will you accompany me?"""
17219,"She had, in her own youth, been deeply and permanently impressed with the horror of dissipation by the case of one to whom she had for a time been engaged."
17220,"The Town Council are all very little, round, oily, intelligent men, with big saucer eyes and fat double chins, and have their coats much longer and their shoe buckles much bigger than the ordinary inhabitants of Vondervotteimittiss."
17221,"On this occasion he crawled in as usual, lighting his way with matches filched from the sitting room match safe, and edging through the final crevice with an eagerness hard to explain even to himself."
17222,"At this point, after a series of sweeps, it turned off at right angles and pursued a generally southern direction meandering as it went until it became lost in a small lake of irregular figure although roughly oval, that lay gleaming near the lower extremity of the vale."
17223,"Flowers, indeed, of gorgeous colours and delicate odour formed the sole mere decoration of the apartment."
17224,"Until now, my savage habits had done me no radical mischief; my physical powers had grown up and flourished under their influence, and my mind, undergoing the same discipline, was imbued with all the hardy virtues."
17225,"""Let us now transport ourselves, in fancy, to this chamber."
17226,"The playing grew fantastic, delirious, and hysterical, yet kept to the last the qualities of supreme genius which I knew this strange old man possessed."
17227,The anniversary was at hand of the exaltation of Raymond to the office of Protector; and it was customary to celebrate this day by a splendid festival.
17228,Their roots a hideous sight were clotted with fragments of the flesh of the scalp sure token of the prodigious power which had been exerted in uprooting perhaps half a million of hairs at a time.
17229,"We could not have made head against the strong wind of yesterday; but, by ascending, we might have got out of its influence, if requisite."
17230,"He rode over to S , immediately after breakfast, and left word that he would not be in town again for a week."""
17231,"As I spoke, a dark gloom spread over my listener's countenance."
17232,"Many a night, just at midnight, when all the world slept, it has welled up from my own bosom, deepening, with its dreadful echo, the terrors that distracted me."
17233,"Now, this is precisely what ought to be the case, if we suppose a resistance experienced from the comet from an extremely rare ethereal medium pervading the regions of its orbit."
17234,"Whether a modern student could ever gain similar powers from mathematical research alone, was still to be seen."
17235,"He had been struck by the fortitude and beauty of the ill fated Greek; and, when her constant tenderness towards him unfolded itself, he asked with astonishment, by what act of his he had merited this passionate and unrequited love."
17236,"She did not in the least resemble either of her children; her black and sparkling eye, lit up by pride, was totally unlike the blue lustre, and frank, benignant expression of either Adrian or Idris."
17237,"Again I am a solitary man; and I will become again, as in my early years, a wanderer, a soldier of fortune."
17238,Withdrawing the key I stepped back from the recess.
17239,I was as a solitary spot among mountains shut in on all sides by steep black precipices; where no ray of heat could penetrate; and from which there was no outlet to sunnier fields.
17240,Namby pamby sort ever heard of her?
17241,"All I now ask, all your mother, Idris, requests is, that you will not see this upstart during the interval of one month."""
17242,The evident motion of our system in the heavens was strange to say referred to an orbit about a prodigious star in the centre of the galaxy.
17243,"In the Land of Sona Nyl there is neither time nor space, neither suffering nor death; and there I dwelt for many aeons."
17244,"The extra state room, originally engaged for this girl during her mistress' life, was now merely retained."
17245,"No doubt I now grew very pale; but I talked more fluently, and with a heightened voice."
17246,For a few minutes I remained wrapped in the profoundest meditation.
17247,"I was bewildered, in a cloud of wonder and horror."
17248,I resolved at length to accompany Perdita.
17249,"Woe befall the day, she thought, woe, tears, and mourning betide the hour, that gave Raymond another hope than love, another wish than my devotion; and thrice joyful the moment when he shall be restored to me God knows, I put my trust in his vows, and believe his asserted faith but for that, I would not seek what I am now resolved to attain."
17250,"He grasped my hand affectionately: ""Thank you,"" he said, ""you have relieved me from a painful dilemma, and are, as you ever were, the best of my friends."
17251,He puts out his candle.
17252,"""But it is true that I am a wretch."
17253,There was the poodle.
17254,"""Yes, I perceive; and now there is only one point which puzzles me."
17255,"Hear him not; call on the names of William, Justine, Clerval, Elizabeth, my father, and of the wretched Victor, and thrust your sword into his heart."
17256,"The bog was the cause of all these troubles, as Barry told me the night I came to the castle."
17257,"But your sad mien never alters; your pulses beat and you breathe, yet you seem already to belong to another world; and sometimes, pray pardon my wild thoughts, when you touch my hand I am surprised to find your hand warm when all the fire of life seems extinct within you."
17258,"He discovered the name of the spot whither my father had retreated, and where he died; he learnt the existence of his orphan children; and during the short interval between his arrival at Ulswater and our meeting in the park, he had been occupied in making inquiries concerning us, and arranging a variety of plans for our benefit, preliminary to his introducing himself to our notice."
17259,At her right hand sat a diminutive young lady whom she appeared to patronise.
17260,"This latter kind of silk was designated as silk buckingham, on account of its superior durability, and was usually prepared for use by being varnished with a solution of gum caoutchouc a substance which in some respects must have resembled the gutta percha now in common use."
17261,"But Armitage had a sound physique despite his seventy three years, and slept off his disorder that night without developing any real fever."
17262,"He was found stiff, his hands clenched, and pressed against his breast."
17263,His Grace's brain reeled as he glanced upward.
17264,"The instant he opened his eyes he knew something was terribly wrong, for he was back in his old garret room with the slanting wall and ceiling, sprawled on the now unmade bed."
17265,No; I am not so selfish.
17266,"But this difficulty might be easily obviated, either by elevating the seats of the company, or by turning the end of the box towards them during the game."
17267,"Still I think, that time, and even absence, may restore her to me."
17268,Like a true Frenchwoman as she was she had obeyed the frank dictates of her reason the generous impulses of her nature despising the conventional pruderies of the world.
17269,It was situated against the back of the cottage and surrounded on the sides which were exposed by a pig sty and a clear pool of water.
17270,"To credit these whisperings of rural grandmothers, I now insisted, argued a faith in the existence of spectral substances on the earth apart from and subsequent to their material counterparts."
17271,"The autumn was warm and rainy: the infirm and sickly died off happier they: many young people flushed with health and prosperity, made pale by wasting malady, became the inhabitants of the grave."
17272,"For its recovery, she offers some forty or fifty dollars reward giving, in her advertisement, a very minute description of the gem, and of its settings, and declaring that, on its restoration at No. so and so, in such and such Avenue, the reward would be paid instanter, without a single question being asked."
17273,"Did you ever behold streets so insufferably narrow, or houses so miraculously tall?"
17274,"Elwood was out late that night, and Gilman waited up for him."
17275,"He was one of those very few whom fortune favours from their birth; on whom she bestows all gifts of intellect and person with a profusion that knew no bounds, and whom under her peculiar protection, no imperfection however slight, or disappointment however transitory has leave to touch."
17276,"I had known Denys Barry well in America, where he had grown rich, and had congratulated him when he bought back the old castle by the bog at sleepy Kilderry."
17277,"""You scoundrel,"" said Legrand, hissing out the syllables from between his clenched teeth ""you infernal black villain speak, I tell you answer me this instant, without prevarication which which is your left eye?"" ""Oh, my golly, Massa Will aint dis here my lef eye for sartain?"" roared the terrified Jupiter, placing his hand upon his right organ of vision, and holding it there with a desperate pertinacity, as if in immediate dread of his master's attempt at a gouge."
17278,"God knows it was not of this world or no longer of this world yet to my horror I saw in its eaten away and bone revealing outlines a leering, abhorrent travesty on the human shape; and in its mouldy, disintegrating apparel an unspeakable quality that chilled me even more."
17279,"Alas, it is too late We stand upon the brink of a precipice."
17280,"We did, however, deem ourselves justified in assuming that it was a living organism highly susceptible to electrical storms; and although certain of the stories suggested wings, we believed that its aversion for open spaces made land locomotion a more probable theory."
17281,"The whole company, indeed, seemed now deeply to feel that in the costume and bearing of the stranger neither wit nor propriety existed."
17282,"Often, when wearied by a toilsome march, I persuaded myself that I was dreaming until night should come and that I should then enjoy reality in the arms of my dearest friends."
17283,My duties towards the beings of my own species had greater claims to my attention because they included a greater proportion of happiness or misery.
17284,"why cannot the doctors give me something to make me sleep, or truly calm my brain when it thunders?"
17285,"It was only a minute's work, and then came a sixpence."
17286,Once more I say that I have no clear idea of our object on that night.
17287,"At the soirée of the lovely widow, Mrs. Kathleen O'Trump, I was confident that I should meet with no similar disappointment."
17288,"""Yes,"" said Elizabeth, ""I will go, although she is guilty; and you, Victor, shall accompany me; I cannot go alone."""
17289,"But I forget that I am moralizing in the most interesting part of my tale, and your looks remind me to proceed."
17290,"It might have been midnight, or perhaps earlier, or later, for I had taken no note of time, when a sob, low, gentle, but very distinct, startled me from my revery."
17291,"I have no one near me, gentle yet courageous, possessed of a cultivated as well as of a capacious mind, whose tastes are like my own, to approve or amend my plans."
17292,"""Tousand teufel"" growled the Elector of Bluddennuff."
17293,"He'll take the hint and be off, you may depend upon it."""
17294,"Then I saw a small black aperture, felt a ghoulish wind of ice, and smelled the charnel bowels of a putrescent earth."
17295,"The later action of the government, after my frantic appeals, would tend to confirm it as a monstrous truth; but could not an hallucination have been repeated under the quasi hypnotic spell of that ancient, haunted, and shadowed town?"
17296,"Not so Raymond; he was an enchanter, whose reign was for ever undiminished; a king whose power never was suspended: follow him through the details of common life, still the same charm of grace and majesty adorned him; nor could he be despoiled of the innate deification with which nature had invested him."
17297,"While I was pondering upon what was best to be done, Jupiter's voice was again heard."
17298,"Admitting the rule, and this Le Moniteur does not deny, insisting merely upon its exceptions, the argument of L'Etoile is suffered to remain in full force; for this argument does not pretend to involve more than a question of the probability of the body having risen to the surface in less than three days; and this probability will be in favor of L'Etoile's position until the instances so childishly adduced shall be sufficient in number to establish an antagonistical rule."
17299,"When we were together I spoke little yet my selfish mind was sometimes borne away by the rapid course of his ideas; I would lift my eyes with momentary brilliancy until memories that never died and seldom slept would recur, and a tear would dim them."
17300,"AS it is well known that the 'wise men' came 'from the East,' and as Mr. Touch and go Bullet head came from the East, it follows that Mr. Bullet head was a wise man; and if collateral proof of the matter be needed, here we have it Mr. B. was an editor."
17301,"And then, hour after hour, would I linger by her side, and dwell upon the music of her voice, until at length its melody was tainted with terror, and there fell a shadow upon my soul, and I grew pale, and shuddered inwardly at those too unearthly tones."
17302,"By Their smell can men sometimes know Them near, but of Their semblance can no man know, saving only in the features of those They have begotten on mankind; and of those are there many sorts, differing in likeness from man's truest eidolon to that shape without sight or substance which is Them."
17303,"I motioned him to take up the letter, while I walked up and down the room in the extremest agitation."
17304,"Upon the usurpation of Vitiges, Ibidus fell into disgrace and was for a time imprisoned; but the coming of the Byzantine Roman army under Belisarius soon restored him to liberty and honours."
17305,"In this rack, which had three or four compartments, were five or six visiting cards and a solitary letter."
17306,Death and disease level all men.
17307,"Every succeeding wave of thought overwhelmed me with new terror, for, alas I well, too well understood that to think, in my situation, was to be lost."
17308,"Chantilly was a quondam cobbler of the Rue St. Denis, who, becoming stage mad, had attempted the rôle of Xerxes, in Crébillon's tragedy so called, and been notoriously Pasquinaded for his pains."
17309,She had no experience beyond her father's cottage; and the mansion of the lord of the manor was the chiefest type of grandeur she could conceive.
17310,"In his boyhood he had revelled through long visits there, and had found weird marvels in the woods beyond the orchard."
17311,"Let it suffice to say, that at the period of which I speak, there existed, in the interior of Hungary, a settled although hidden belief in the doctrines of the Metempsychosis."
17312,"In the name of all the vrows and devils in Rotterdam, what could it possibly portend?"
17313,A new species would bless me as its creator and source; many happy and excellent natures would owe their being to me.
17314,"they wanted to mix like they done with the Kanakys, an' he fer one didn't feel baound to stop 'em."
17315,"Although completely water logged, yet, as her masts had gone by the board, she rose, after a minute, heavily from the sea, and, staggering awhile beneath the immense pressure of the tempest, finally righted."
17316,"Here was art undoubtedly that did not surprise me all roads, in the ordinary sense, are works of art; nor can I say that there was much to wonder at in the mere excess of art manifested; all that seemed to have been done, might have been done here with such natural ""capabilities"" as they have it in the books on Landscape Gardening with very little labor and expense."
17317,We had prepared a banquet for our guests in the lower hall of the castle; and thither Idris and I repaired to receive and entertain the few that remained.
17318,"It was not until the opening of the vault to decide the controversy, that the appearance of Mr. Windenough and myself proved both parties to have been decidedly in the wrong."
17319,I could hardly sustain the multitude of feelings that crowded into my mind.
17320,"""Entertain this belief,"" he cried, ""hug it to your heart make it a pillow to your head, an opiate for your eyes I am content."
17321,I saw our exact position in an instant.
17322,"Many living deaths have I borne for thee, O Raymond, and now I expire, thy victim By my death I purchase thee lo the instruments of war, fire, the plague are my servitors."
17323,But is it not getting late?
17324,"Such incursions struck the English with affright, in all those towns where there was still sufficient population to feel the change."
17325,"The high walls of the tomb, and the flaming sword of plague, lie between it and him."
17326,The idea of detection never once entered my brain.
17327,THE MOST notorious ill fortune must in the end yield to the untiring courage of philosophy as the most stubborn city to the ceaseless vigilance of an enemy.
17328,"What, then, must have been my amazement when I heard the Frenchman speak what he had just spoken, and when I could not help acknowledging that he had spoken the truth."
17329,"After many years spent in foreign travel, I sailed in the year , from the port of Batavia, in the rich and populous island of Java, on a voyage to the Archipelago of the Sunda islands."
17330,"Had there been divisions, the task would have been comparatively easy."
17331,"The field of ice is almost a league in width, but I spent nearly two hours in crossing it."
17332,The last nine hours have been unquestionably the most exciting of my life.
17333,"""Its susceptibility of being produced?"" said I. ""That is to say, of being destroyed,"" said Dupin."
17334,"Let us endeavor to ascertain, by repeated questionings of Madame Deluc and her boys, as well as of the omnibus driver, Valence, something more of the personal appearance and bearing of the 'man of dark complexion.' Queries, skilfully directed, will not fail to elicit, from some of these parties, information on this particular point or upon others information which the parties themselves may not even be aware of possessing."
17335,"Crazed as I was, I saw in that awful shadow a monstrous resemblance a nauseous, unbelievable caricature a blasphemous effigy of him who had been Denys Barry."
17336,"Why my sic does my heart heave with vain endeavour to cast aside the bitter anguish that covers it ""as the waters cover the sea."""
17337,"Clumps of wild flowers grew everywhere, luxuriantly, in the interspaces."
17338,He now grew more composed in his demeanor; but his original air of enthusiasm had quite disappeared.
17339,It would be a city greater than Innsmouth next time.
17340,"I was not sufficiently awake to see whether Tobey was attending to his duties as sentinel, but felt a distinct anxiety on that score."
17341,I kept quite still and said nothing.
17342,Alas it was double cruelty in him to have chosen the sea for his fatal resolve; it was adding madness to my despair.
17343,"The name of the king, he to whom my dying father had addressed his latest prayers, and who had barbarously slighted them, was associated only with the ideas of unkindness, injustice, and consequent resentment."
17344,"A draught of this Medoc will defend us from the damps."""
17345,To do do small man and bad pay....... TOTAL sic The item chiefly disputed in this bill was the very moderate charge of two pennies for the dickey.
17346,Yet let me a little retract from this sentence I have passed on myself.
17347,As I look back across the years I realise how unreal it seems; and sometimes half wonder if old Dr. Fenton was not right when he charged it all to my excited imagination.
17348,"The Old Ones were, the Old Ones are, and the Old Ones shall be."
17349,"In his explanation of this phraseology, Mr. Ellison did much toward solving what has always seemed to me an enigma: I mean the fact which none but the ignorant dispute that no such combination of scenery exists in nature as the painter of genius may produce."
17350,"The Comte died without utterance, and was buried the next day, but little more than two and thirty years from the hour of his birth."
17351,"The paste thus arising was called papyrus in its primary state, and went through a variety of processes until it finally became ""silk."""
17352,"I see by your eagerness and the wonder and hope which your eyes express, my friend, that you expect to be informed of the secret with which I am acquainted; that cannot be; listen patiently until the end of my story, and you will easily perceive why I am reserved upon that subject."
17353,"Were the pride of ancestry, the patrician spirit, the gentle courtesies and refined pursuits, splendid attributes of rank, to be erased among us?"
17354,Not even the outlines of continents and seas could now be traced upon the earth with anything approaching distinctness.
17355,"Rumour now and then associated him with a certain ""Consul Hasting"" whose work for the stage and for motion picture companies attracted a certain degree of attention because of its scholarly breadth and depth; but Hasting soon disappeared from the public eye, and Galpin became only a name for parents to quote in warning accents."
17356,Social feeling and sympathy constituted a marked feature in my disposition.
17357,"Within there were carven mantels and graceful stairs, and sensible, pleasing furniture, china, and silver, brought from the Mother Land."
17358,"Cut loose, then, in high spirits, and rose gently but steadily, with a light breeze at North, which bore us in the direction of the British Channel."
17359,Wealth was the general solution but this I knew to be no solution at all; for Wyatt had told me that she neither brought him a dollar nor had any expectations from any source whatever.
17360,"As he spoke, every sound was hushed, every thought suspended by intense attention."
17361,"The Emperors Tiberius and Maurice did kindly honour to his old age, and contributed much to his immortality especially Maurice, whose delight it was to trace his ancestry to old Rome notwithstanding his birth at Arabiscus, in Cappadocia."
17362,"At this time, my belief in the supernatural was firm and deep seated, else I should have dismissed with scorn the incredible narrative unfolded before my eyes."
17363,"""You have a quarrel on hand, I see,"" said I, ""with some of the algebraists of Paris; but proceed."""
17364,"Although this event failed not of a vivid effect upon my disordered imagination, yet was it evanescent as vivid."
17365,"I started up, my strength returned; sic with my terror; I cried, ""Oh, God Is this thy decree?"
17366,"One night, about the close of my fifth year at the school, and immediately after the altercation just mentioned, finding every one wrapped in sleep, I arose from bed, and, lamp in hand, stole through a wilderness of narrow passages from my own bedroom to that of my rival."
17367,"Burke has said that, 'in all bodies those who would lead, must also, in a considerable degree, follow.'"
17368,I never loved any but you.
17369,"When, I say, all this became evident to my appalled senses, when I could no longer hide it from my soul, nor throw it off from those perceptions which trembled to receive it, is it to be wondered at that suspicions, of a nature fearful and exciting, crept in upon my spirit, or that my thoughts fell back aghast upon the wild tales and thrilling theories of the entombed Morella?"
17370,"They retreated, at first, before us."
17371,Nothing else of an extraordinary nature occurred during the day.
17372,The very moderate density of these bodies had been well established.
17373,"The chairs and table were ""to match,"" but the forms of all had evidently been designed by the same brain which planned ""the grounds;"" it is impossible to conceive anything more graceful."
17374,"Pardon me, gentle reader, this is not futile vanity; not futile, since to know that Adrian felt thus, brings joy even now to my lone heart."
17375,"I found that we were to have a great many passengers, including a more than usual number of ladies."
17376,"She directed everything to be prepared for the continuance of their journey, and placing her lovely sleeping charge on a bed, passed several hours in acute suffering."
17377,After this I call to mind flatness and dampness; and then all is madness the madness of a memory which busies itself among forbidden things.
17378,"I feel yet parched with horror, nor can I reflect on that terrible moment without shuddering and agony."
17379,"That morning and afternoon I wandered alone through the sun gilded village and talked now and then with idle labourers, for Barry was busy with the final plans for beginning his work of drainage."
17380,"On the hearth were two or three long and thick tresses of grey human hair, also dabbled in blood, and seeming to have been pulled out by the roots."
17381,"This good woman had stood in the place of a mother, and her very deficiencies of education and knowledge, by rendering her humble and defenceless, endeared her to us she was the especial favourite of the children."
17382,"As the shadows gathered, the natives commenced to disperse homeward, anxious to bar themselves indoors despite the present evidence that all human locks and bolts were useless before a force that could bend trees and crush houses when it chose."
17383,"""Astonishingly,"" said the second; ""still quite a brilliant air, but art will do wonders."
17384,"Once I partly awaked, probably because the sleeper toward the window had restlessly flung an arm across my chest."
17385,"What shall we think of an engine of wood and metal which can not only compute astronomical and navigation tables to any given extent, but render the exactitude of its operations mathematically certain through its power of correcting its possible errors?"
17386,"Mixed with the present scene was always a little of the past and a little of the future, and every once familiar object loomed alien in the new perspective brought by my widened sight."
17387,"His right hand fell on one of the projecting figures, the touch seeming to steady him slightly."
17388,"His height could not have been less than six feet, and despite a general air of age and poverty he was stout and powerful in proportion."
17389,"""Treason"" said the little man with the gout."
17390,"We conjectured, notwithstanding what we had heard, that we should find Raymond in St. Stephen's: thither we sped."
17391,"But what mainly occasioned a righteous indignation was, that the scoundrelly popinjay, while he cut a fandango here, and a whirligig there, did not seem to have the remotest idea in the world of such a thing as keeping time in his steps."
17392,"At the time I saw no reason to dissent from this dictum, but latterly I am inclined to wonder and more than wonder."
17393,"He felt assured, after he had for awhile humoured her self will, that in the end friendship and reason would gain the day."
17394,"That my memory is broken, I do not wonder; for my health, physical and mental, was gravely disturbed throughout the period of my residence in the Rue d'Auseil, and I recall that I took none of my few acquaintances there."
17395,"""But that ain't the trouble naow that was only the start."
17396,"In fact, he would have given ten thousand pounds from his own pocket Kate's plum was her own if he could have invented any thing like an excuse for complying with our very natural wishes."
17397,"What the ""Daddy"" chose to say of the Fly, however, was no business of mine."
17398,"""It may appear invidious in me, Miss Psyche Zenobia, to refer you to any article, or set of articles, in the way of model or study, yet perhaps I may as well call your attention to a few cases."
17399,"I know not by what chain of thought the idea presented itself, but it instantly darted into my mind that the murderer had come to mock at my misery and taunt me with the death of Clerval, as a new incitement for me to comply with his hellish desires."
17400,"There will be frequent hours in which I shall need, too, the sympathy of the poetic in what I have done."
17401,"""Who dares?"" he demanded hoarsely of the courtiers who stood near him ""who dares insult us with this blasphemous mockery?"
17402,Meanwhile he would try to keep track of his somnambulism.
17403,The apartments were so irregularly disposed that the vision embraced but little more than one at a time.
17404,"""Smith?"" said Mrs. P., as we twirled about together in a pas de zephyr, ""Smith?"
17405,I tell you we are no longer miserable mortals; we are about to become Gods; spirits free and happy as gods.
17406,"It is long since I first trod the deck of this terrible ship, and the rays of my destiny are, I think, gathering to a focus."
17407,"Quizzed the whole party through an opera glass, till I saw the fat lady blush and whisper to G. Went round, then, into the box, and put my nose within reach of his hand."
17408,"The region now entered by the police was one of traditionally evil repute, substantially unknown and untraversed by white men."
17409,"I was convinced of this for two reasons because my birds always flew in a straight line; and because whenever we attempted to rest, we were carried insensibly around the globe of the earth."
17410,"She says the hired boy Luther was aout drivin' in the caows from the storm arter the big bolt, when he see all the trees a bendin' at the maouth o' the glen opposite side ter this an' smelt the same awful smell like he smelt when he faound the big tracks las' Monday mornin'."
17411,"That night as Gilman slept the violet light broke upon him with heightened intensity, and the old witch and small furry thing getting closer than ever before mocked him with inhuman squeals and devilish gestures."
17412,"""You could take that old bus, I suppose,"" he said with a certain hesitation, ""but it ain't thought much of hereabouts."
17413,But this is what I shiveringly puzzled out on the stickily smeared paper before I drew a match and burned it to a crisp; what I puzzled out in terror as the landlady and two mechanics rushed frantically from that hellish place to babble their incoherent stories at the nearest police station.
17414,"Suddenly, as the seamen stumbled against the entrance of a tall and ghastly looking building, a yell more than usually shrill from the throat of the excited Legs, was replied to from within, in a rapid succession of wild, laughter like, and fiendish shrieks."
17415,The world was to me a secret which I desired to divine.
17416,"The plain around was interspersed with cemeteries, Turk, Greek, and Armenian, with their growth of cypress trees; and other woods of more cheerful aspect, diversified the scene."
17417,There was the President of the Fum Fudge University.
17418,"""All men hate the wretched; how, then, must I be hated, who am miserable beyond all living things Yet you, my creator, detest and spurn me, thy creature, to whom thou art bound by ties only dissoluble by the annihilation of one of us."
17419,"It is quite a common thing to be thus annoyed with the ringing in our ears, or rather in our memories, of the burthen of some ordinary song, or some unimpressive snatches from an opera."
17420,"that's me"" here I screamed at the top of my voice ""that's me e e I am Napoleon Bonaparte Froissart and if I havn't married my great, great, grandmother, I wish I may be everlastingly confounded"" Madame Eugenie Lalande, quasi Simpson formerly Moissart was, in sober fact, my great, great, grandmother."
17421,She had grown thin and pale; and her eyes often filled with tears.
17422,"The propelling principle, or power, was here, also, applied to interrupted surfaces, or vanes, put in revolution."
17423,"If, instead of this remark, my father had taken the pains to explain to me that the principles of Agrippa had been entirely exploded and that a modern system of science had been introduced which possessed much greater powers than the ancient, because the powers of the latter were chimerical, while those of the former were real and practical, under such circumstances I should certainly have thrown Agrippa aside and have contented my imagination, warmed as it was, by returning with greater ardour to my former studies."
17424,"Turning to him, therefore, I said, ""I consent to your demand, on your solemn oath to quit Europe forever, and every other place in the neighbourhood of man, as soon as I shall deliver into your hands a female who will accompany you in your exile."""
17425,My appearance is commanding.
17426,"With this object in view I had prepared a very strong perfectly air tight, but flexible gum elastic bag."
17427,"Upon sight of it, the Ourang Outang sprang at once through the door of the chamber, down the stairs, and thence, through a window, unfortunately open, into the street."
17428,"Her only consolation during the violence which she did herself, was to watch the motions of an illuminated clock, and internally count the moments which must elapse before she could be alone."
17429,"Thus isolated, and thrown upon my own resources, I spent the hours of my childhood in poring over the ancient tomes that filled the shadow haunted library of the chateau, and in roaming without aim or purpose through the perpetual dusk of the spectral wood that clothes the side of the hill near its foot."
17430,"Houses went up of them, and more and at last one fateful night a titan thing occurred."
17431,And I called the Mighty Ruler of the Universe to witness the pious solemnity of my vow.
17432,"In this disposition, the dupe who cuts, as customary, at the length of the pack, will invariably find that he cuts his antagonist an honor; while the gambler, cutting at the breadth, will, as certainly, cut nothing for his victim which may count in the records of the game."
17433,"Upon coming to my senses, for the fall had very thoroughly stunned me, I found it about four o'clock in the morning."
17434,"At length I saw a grass grown opening toward the sea between crumbling brick walls, with the weedy length of an earth and masonry wharf projecting beyond."
17435,An instantaneous and dreadful sickness seized me.
17436,"With a well feigned show of reluctance, and not until after my repeated refusal had seduced him into some angry words which gave a color of pique to my compliance, did I finally comply."
17437,"The sight of the military restored hope to those who fled, and revenge took place of fear."
17438,"Then I should have lived upon this dreary heath unvisited, and blasting none by my unhallowed gaze."
17439,"The other crucible had some liquid in it, which, as the officers entered, seemed to be furiously dissipating in vapor."
17440,"We had now been about ten minutes upon the top of Helseggen, to which we had ascended from the interior of Lofoden, so that we had caught no glimpse of the sea until it had burst upon us from the summit."
17441,"I became perfectly certain of this; for I recollected turning up first one side and then the other, in search of the cleanest spot."
17442,"""In his murder my crimes are consummated; the miserable series of my being is wound to its close Oh, Frankenstein Generous and self devoted being What does it avail that I now ask thee to pardon me?"
17443,"He mentioned the beauties of his native country and asked us if those were not sufficient allurements to induce us to prolong our journey as far north as Perth, where he resided."
17444,Do you see the stage box?
17445,"At least it would be a benevolent action to rescue the sufferer, whether human or brute, from the desolation of the town; so, sending Clara back to her home, I again entered Constantinople."
17446,Not even here is knowledge thing of intuition.
17447,"Perdita rejoined him, and before her he forced himself to appear cheerful, for she, even as a mirror, changed as he changed, and if he were silent and anxious, she solicitously inquired concerning, and endeavoured to remove the cause of his seriousness."
17448,"And their astonishment may be well conceived, when the next day it became known, all over Bremen, that the 'lot of brass' which they had carted so contemptuously to the police office, without putting themselves to the trouble of pocketing the smallest scrap, was not only gold real gold but gold far finer than any employed in coinage gold, in fact, absolutely pure, virgin, without the slightest appreciable alloy."
17449,Near the fire was Ryland and his supporters.
17450,"Day after day so many hundreds wore on; they brought no outward changes with them, but some few slowly operated on my mind as I glided on towards death."
17451,"Now, if we imagine this sense of the Almighty Design to be harmonized in a measurable degree, if we suppose a landscape whose combined strangeness, vastness, definitiveness, and magnificence, shall inspire the idea of culture, or care, or superintendence, on the part of intelligences superior yet akin to humanity then the sentiment of interest is preserved, while the Art is made to assume the air of an intermediate or secondary Nature a Nature which is not God, nor an emanation of God, but which still is Nature, in the sense that it is the handiwork of the angels that hover between man and God."""
17452,"She regarded with suspicion the invitation of Idris; she embraced me, as if she were about to be deprived of my affection also: calling me her more than brother, her only friend, her last hope, she pathetically conjured me not to cease to love her; and with encreased anxiety she departed for London, the scene and cause of all her misery."
17453,"The doctor was a bachelor; a white haired, clean shaven, old fashioned gentleman, and a local historian of note, who had often broken a lance with such controversial guardians of tradition as Sidney S. Rider and Thomas W. Bicknell."
17454,"You who have dedicated your powers of mind and fortune to the benefit of your species, shall you so misdirect your exertions, as to support in uselessness the strong, healthy, and capable?"""
17455,"The ship was no longer visible, having drifted away, apparently to the eastward."
17456,"It was in March when the fresh element entered his lighter preliminary dreaming, and the nightmare shape of Brown Jenkin began to be companioned by the nebulous blur which grew more and more to resemble a bent old woman."
17457,"Certainly, it had much to do with something in the book which Warren carried with him that ancient book in undecipherable characters which had come to him from India a month before but I swear I do not know what it was that we expected to find."
17458,"At last, with slow and heavy steps, I had paced out of the hall, and sprung upon my horse."
17459,These simple people were quick to imagine they had seen any odd thing they had heard about.
17460,"I clung to my ferocious habits, yet half despised them; I continued my war against civilization, and yet entertained a wish to belong to it."
17461,"Joe Slater, who came to the institution in the vigilant custody of four state policemen, and who was described as a highly dangerous character, certainly presented no evidence of his perilous disposition when first I beheld him."
17462,But my father; my beloved and most wretched father?
17463,"I had always been exceptionally tolerant of West's pursuits, and we frequently discussed his theories, whose ramifications and corollaries were almost infinite."
17464,No human being could have passed a happier childhood than myself.
17465,"That those venturesome youths will come back they do not doubt, but they think a light may be gone from their eyes, and a will from their hearts."
17466,"""Perhaps the mystery is a little too plain,"" said Dupin."
17467,"""She will of course, as I shall her, when we are married."""
17468,"He questioned the sculptor with scientific minuteness; and studied with almost frantic intensity the bas relief on which the youth had found himself working, chilled and clad only in his night clothes, when waking had stolen bewilderingly over him."
17469,"I never learned its title, for the early pages were missing; but it fell open toward the end and gave me a glimpse of something which sent my senses reeling."
17470,"When at last my senses returned, all was frightfully dark, and my mind remembering what had occurred, shrank from the idea of beholding more; yet curiosity overmastered all."
17471,"Indeed, the labor now required by the condenser had increased to a most oppressive degree, and allowed me scarcely any respite from exertion."
17472,"They had to do with some preposterous legend of the bog, and of a grim guardian spirit that dwelt in the strange olden ruin on the far islet I had seen in the sunset."
17473,"You, perhaps, regard her as your sister, without any wish that she might become your wife."
17474,"I had to rest several times before I could accomplish this manoeuvre, but it was at length accomplished."
17475,"No word was uttered, for the spot and the task seemed known to us; and without delay we seized our spades and commenced to clear away the grass, weeds, and drifted earth from the flat, archaic mortuary."
17476,"Then taking also from the drawer the Automaton's set of chess men, he arranges them upon the chessboard before the figure."
17477,We may not part until you have promised to comply with my requisition.
17478,"As twilight deepened I turned on the one feeble electric bulb over the cheap, iron framed bed, and tried as best I could to continue the reading I had begun."
17479,"For some distance the line kept on along the gorge's brink, but at length I reached the long covered bridge where it crossed the chasm at a dizzy height."
17480,"Turning her thoughts this way, I gave them an object which rescued them from insanity."
17481,"Opening the door, he saw that the flour on the corridor floor was undisturbed except for the huge prints of the loutish fellow who roomed at the other end of the garret."
17482,"She had never been married; and for the last five years had lived perfectly alone on an estate, that had descended to her through her mother, on the shores of Loch Lomond in Scotland."
17483,"When I came to the reality, and saw regiments file off to the left far out of sight, fields intervening between the battalions, but a few troops sufficiently near me to observe their motions, I gave up all idea of understanding, even of seeing a battle, but attaching myself to Raymond attended with intense interest to his actions."
17484,Wait till I ring for coffee.
17485,What I then saw confounded and amazed me.
17486,A great point was to set each lunatic to guard the actions of all the others.
17487,"Those most remote from the spectators are the longest those in the middle are about two inches shorter and those nearest the company about two inches shorter still and the candles on one side differ in height from the candles respectively opposite on the other, by a ratio different from two inches that is to say, the longest candle on one side is about three inches shorter than the longest candle on the other, and so on."
17488,"They were definite and unmistakable, and awaked in my mind a blind horror beyond all rational proportion."
17489,"There she would behold the tomb of her parents, and the territory filled with recollections of her father's glory."
17490,But it was not that distant whine which robbed me of my faculties and set upon my soul such a seal of fright as may never in life be removed; not that which drew the shrieks and excited the convulsions which caused lodgers and police to break down the door.
17491,"I knew him as a courtier, too, and as a bold intriguant."
17492,The ward was filled with an effluvia that caused my heart to heave with painful qualms.
17493,"I never ben thar, but I kin tell a taown man when I see 'im we hed one fer deestrick schoolmaster in 'eighty four, but he quit suddent an' no one never heerd on 'im sence "" Here the old man lapsed into a kind of chuckle, and made no explanation when I questioned him."
17494,"This, however, implied that all roads leading out of Innsmouth were similarly patrolled; for the denizens could not have known what route I intended to take."
17495,"""You kept your eyes upon the ground glancing, with a petulant expression, at the holes and ruts in the pavement, so that I saw you were still thinking of the stones, until we reached the little alley called Lamartine, which has been paved, by way of experiment, with the overlapping and riveted blocks."
17496,What it shewed was simply the monstrous being he was painting on that awful canvas.
17497,"Atal was only the son of an innkeeper, and was sometimes afraid; but Barzai's father had been a landgrave who dwelt in an ancient castle, so he had no common superstition in his blood, and only laughed at the fearful cotters."
17498,"Once for a moment she revived and recognized his voice; a smile, a last lovely smile, played upon her lips."
17499,"An observation of yours about its great weight suggested the latter idea."""
17500,I found it impossible to comprehend him either in his moral or his physical relations.
17501,The impression she produced upon the company seemed electrical but the effect upon myself was something even more.
17502,"They could not perceive, so they said, what good was likely to result from their getting wet to the skin, merely to take a part in such horrible incantations."
17503,"With shuddering horror I veiled this monument of human passion and human misery; I heaped over her all of flags and heavy accoutrements I could find, to guard her from birds and beasts of prey, until I could bestow on her a fitting grave."
17504,At this moment we heard a step upon the stairs.
17505,"We were then to call at the house of a clergyman who would be in waiting; there be married, drop Talbot, and proceed on a short tour to the East, leaving the fashionable world at home to make whatever comments upon the matter it thought best."
17506,I felt a holy rapture spring from all I saw.
17507,It afforded me more real delight than all the mere worldly advantages accruing from my sin.
17508,I pondered upon their conformation.
17509,"They have made a Latin hymn upon the valor of the king, and are singing it as they go: Mille, mille, mille, Mille, mille, mille, Decollavimus, unus homo Mille, mille, mille, mille, decollavimus Mille, mille, mille, Vivat qui mille mille occidit Tantum vini habet nemo Quantum sanguinis effudit Which may be thus paraphrased: A thousand, a thousand, a thousand, A thousand, a thousand, a thousand, We, with one warrior, have slain A thousand, a thousand, a thousand, a thousand."
17510,To the left the character of the scene is softer and more obviously artificial.
17511,"With her therefore, before me on my horse, attended only by the servant who was to re conduct her, we rode to the Top Kapou."
17512,"We will set up a candidate, and ensure his success."
17513,Whither does this lead?
17514,"Despite the obvious danger of attracting notice and bringing down on our heads the dreaded police investigation a thing which after all was mercifully averted by the relative isolation of our cottage my friend suddenly, excitedly, and unnecessarily emptied all six chambers of his revolver into the nocturnal visitor."
17515,The young man and his companion often went apart and appeared to weep.
17516,No such paradises are to be found in reality as have glowed on the canvas of Claude.
17517,"Xh, Jxhn, Jxhn, Jxhn, if yxu dxn't gx yxu're nx hxmx nx Yxu're xnly a fxwl, an xwl; a cxw, a sxw; a dxll, a pxll; a pxxr xld gxxd fxr nxthing tx nxbxdy, lxg, dxg, hxg, xr frxg, cxme xut xf a Cxncxrd bxg."
17518,"I now felt a burning sense of the impropriety I had committed, and expected nothing less than instant exposure; while a vision of pistols upon the morrow floated rapidly and uncomfortably through my brain."
17519,"For the rest, he laughed with his arms and legs, and his politics were stubborn and easily understood."
17520,He felt that the end of time was come; he knew that one by one we should dwindle into nothingness.
17521,The old lady was childish.
17522,"It was merely that my uncle's facial expression, disturbed no doubt by the strange dreams which our situation prompted, betrayed considerable agitation, and seemed not at all characteristic of him."
17523,"See you not the thunderbolt fall, and are deafened by the shout of heaven that follows its descent?"
17524,My knees tottered beneath me my teeth chattered my hair started up on end.
17525,"I rushed towards her and embraced her with ardour, but the deadly languor and coldness of the limbs told me that what I now held in my arms had ceased to be the Elizabeth whom I had loved and cherished."
17526,"In looking about, I discovered the interesting girl to whom Monsieur Maillard had presented me in the little parlor; but my surprise was great to see her wearing a hoop and farthingale, with high heeled shoes, and a dirty cap of Brussels lace, so much too large for her that it gave her face a ridiculously diminutive expression."
17527,It is a part of man's nature to adapt itself through habit even to pain and sorrow.
17528,"And then there stole into my fancy, like a rich musical note, the thought of what sweet rest there must be in the grave."
17529,"Je lui ai cette obligation entre les autres, de m' auoir non seulement mis en main cc Livre en anglois, mais encore le Manuscrit du Sieur Thomas D'Anan, gentilhomme Eccossois, recommandable pour sa vertu, sur la version duquel j' advoue que j' ay tiré le plan de la mienne."""
17530,"It was in the township of Dunwich, in a large and partly inhabited farmhouse set against a hillside four miles from the village and a mile and a half from any other dwelling, that Wilbur Whateley was born at A.M. on Sunday, the second of February, ."
17531,"It was a painful process, and at its very start brought out a fresh and disconcerting fact."
17532,"Hereupon Mr. Crab desired me to use up the editor of the ""Gad Fly"" forthwith, in the fiercest style within the scope of my ability, and as a specimen of my powers."
17533,ANTIOCHUS EPIPHANES is very generally looked upon as the Gog of the prophet Ezekiel.
17534,He was singularly tall and thin.
17535,And yet how unintelligible is this In all other matters we are justly instructed to regard nature as supreme.
17536,"The light, almost slender symmetry of his figure, promised more of that ready activity which he evinced at the Bridge of Sighs, than of that Herculean strength which he has been known to wield without an effort, upon occasions of more dangerous emergency."
17537,"In the brooding fire of autumn Carter took the old remembered way past graceful lines of rolling hill and stone walled meadow, distant vale and hanging woodland, curving road and nestling farmstead, and the crystal windings of the Miskatonic, crossed here and there by rustic bridges of wood or stone."
17538,"I was returning home from the Piazetta, by way of the Grand Canal."
17539,"By the time help could be summoned, every trace of the men and of their mad charge had vanished."
17540,"""How inconstant are your feelings But a moment ago you were moved by my representations, and why do you again harden yourself to my complaints?"
17541,"Its length was thirteen feet six inches height, six feet eight inches."
17542,"He hesitated but for an instant; then, with a slight sigh, drew in silence, and put himself upon his defence."
17543,"Had the wind suddenly changed eastward, so that it blew in from the sea and over the town?"
17544,"I watched the re awakened devotion of my sister; Clara's timid, but concentrated admiration of her father, and Raymond's appetite for renown, and sensitiveness to the demonstrations of affection of the Athenians."
17545,"She must have thought of these things, I say."
17546,"This man, Joseph D. Galvez, I later met and questioned; and he proved distractingly imaginative."
17547,"The moodiness of my usual temper increased to hatred of all things and of all mankind; while, from the sudden, frequent, and ungovernable outbursts of a fury to which I now blindly abandoned myself, my uncomplaining wife, alas was the most usual and the most patient of sufferers."
17548,"Nor did they like the strange sculptures upon the grey monoliths of Ib, for those sculptures were terrible with great antiquity."
17549,"It was late in the day before Perdita awoke, and a longer time elapsed before recovering from the torpor occasioned by the laudanum, she perceived her change of situation."
17550,"I looked dizzily, and beheld a wide expanse of ocean, whose waters wore so inky a hue as to bring at once to my mind the Nubian geographer's account of the Mare Tenebrarum."
17551,"The flame of a candle burned upon the poop without the least perceptible motion, and a long hair, held between the finger and thumb, hung without the possibility of detecting a vibration."
17552,"""Put your right hand into your left hand preeches pocket, ten, in token ov your vull zubmizzion unto te Angel ov te Odd."""
17553,One wolf was seen to lope away unhurt.
17554,Archaeologists and anthropologists are still trying to explain the bizarre designs chased on a crushed bowl of light metal whose inner side bore ominous brownish stains when found.
17555,"I am that is to say I was a great man; but I am neither the author of Junius nor the man in the mask; for my name, I believe, is Robert Jones, and I was born somewhere in the city of Fum Fudge."
17556,Never for one moment when most placid did I cease to pray for death.
17557,"My own name, though, as I say, became Simpson, by act of Legislature, and with so much repugnance on my part, that, at one period, I actually hesitated about accepting the legacy with the useless and annoying proviso attached."
17558,"The girl was young and of gentle demeanour, unlike what I have since found cottagers and farmhouse servants to be."
17559,These repeated insults were not to be endured by an imperious nobility.
17560,"Much as they were attached to each other, they seemed to draw inexhaustible stores of affection from a very mine of love to bestow them upon me."
17561,"He received a letter from her to say that she was slightly ill, but telling him to hasten to her, that from his eyes she would receive health and that his company would be her surest medecine."
17562,"""You are mistaken, my lord; the horse, as I think we mentioned, is not from the stables of the Count."
17563,"With the main result of these colloquies the public is now familiar and I wish, for normality's sake, there were nothing more to tell."
17564,"I shunned the face of man; all sound of joy or complacency was torture to me; solitude was my only consolation deep, dark, deathlike solitude."
17565,"Not for a moment did I believe that the tale had any really substantial foundation; but none the less the account held a hint of genuine terror, if only because it brought in references to strange jewels clearly akin to the malign tiara I had seen at Newburyport."
17566,"I struggled vainly for firmness sufficient to answer him, but the effort destroyed all my remaining strength; I sank on the chair and sobbed aloud."
17567,From its nether extremity swung a large cresset.
17568,When she entered the court she threw her eyes round it and quickly discovered where we were seated.
17569,The monster continued to utter wild and incoherent self reproaches.
17570,They upthrew the damp earth.
17571,"""Ha ha ha why, Simpson, you have an astonishing tact at making discoveries original ones, I mean."""
17572,Its forest should be our world its garden afford us food; within its walls I would establish the shaken throne of health.
17573,"For all his love of Ireland, America had not left him untouched, and he hated the beautiful wasted space where peat might be cut and land opened up."
17574,"'Pardon this intrusion,' said I; 'I am a traveller in want of a little rest; you would greatly oblige me if you would allow me to remain a few minutes before the fire.' ""'Enter,' said De Lacey, 'and I will try in what manner I can to relieve your wants; but, unfortunately, my children are from home, and as I am blind, I am afraid I shall find it difficult to procure food for you.' ""'Do not trouble yourself, my kind host; I have food; it is warmth and rest only that I need.' ""I sat down, and a silence ensued."
17575,And toward the shore on the opposite bank of the river I saw the white belfry surmounting what I took to be the Marsh refinery.
17576,"And when Barzai began to climb higher and beckon eagerly, it was long before Atal would follow."
17577,"He transacted the business of the day apart from her; he went out, she knew not whither."
17578,"So instead of the poems I had hoped for, there came only a shuddering blankness and ineffable loneliness; and I saw at last a fearful truth which no one had ever dared to breathe before the unwhisperable secret of secrets the fact that this city of stone and stridor is not a sentient perpetuation of Old New York as London is of Old London and Paris of Old Paris, but that it is in fact quite dead, its sprawling body imperfectly embalmed and infested with queer animate things which have nothing to do with it as it was in life."
17579,"When I had finished, I felt satisfied that all was right."
17580,It is also written that they descended one night from the moon in a mist; they and the vast still lake and grey stone city Ib.
17581,The ship and all in it are imbued with the spirit of Eld.
17582,"We had no means of calculating time, nor could we form any guess of our situation."
17583,"""I want whiskey good old fashioned rye"" exclaimed Trever enthusiastically."
17584,"A rough gash was made, and a wire hastily brought in contact, when the patient, with a hurried but quite unconvulsive movement, arose from the table, stepped into the middle of the floor, gazed about him uneasily for a few seconds, and then spoke."
17585,"During the first stage of the election, the Duke of had been thrown out; the question therefore lay between Lord Raymond and Mr. Ryland."
17586,"I am Romnod, and born of the blood of Teloth, but am not old in the ways of the granite city, and yearn daily for the warm groves and the distant lands of beauty and song."
17587,"That Raymond should marry Idris was more than ever intolerable; yet my passion, though a giant from its birth, was too strange, wild, and impracticable, for me to feel at once the misery I perceived in Perdita."
17588,"The older authorities seemed rather more helpful than the newer ones, and Armitage concluded that the code of the manuscript was one of great antiquity, no doubt handed down through a long line of mystical experimenters."
17589,Unmistakably he was looking at the curtained window and listening shudderingly.
17590,Again her chill limbs touched me as a torpedo; and I shuddered in sympathy with her pain and fright.
17591,It is with a confused recollection that I bring to mind the circumstances of that meeting.
17592,"Very simple were the things of which they read and spoke, yet things which gave them courage and goodness and helped them by day to subdue the forest and till the fields."
17593,"Could distinguish some words of the former, which was that of a Frenchman."
17594,"You have often agreed with me that there is but one solution to the intricate riddle of life; to improve ourselves, and contribute to the happiness of others: and now, in the very prime of life, you desert your principles, and shut yourself up in useless solitude."
17595,"He speeded up his car as he passed it, and did not slacken till he had mounted the hill where his mother and her fathers before her were born, and where the old white house still looked proudly across the road at the breathlessly lovely panorama of rocky slope and verdant valley, with the distant spires of Kingsport on the horizon, and hints of the archaic, dream laden sea in the farthest background."
17596,"Welcome did not survive his father, but lived to perish gloriously at Fredericksburg in ."
17597,"Raymond had fought and conquered for the Athenians; he had suffered, on their account, peril, imprisonment, and hardship; their gratitude affected him deeply, and he inly vowed to unite his fate for ever to that of a people so enthusiastically devoted to him."
17598,But it is not to this fact that I now especially advert.
17599,"But Hiram, loyal to the last, has held faith in me, and has done that which impels me to make public at least a part of my story."
17600,"Those who took down their receivers heard a fright mad voice shriek out, ""Help, oh, my Gawd . ."
17601,"On the following day I was brought to this room with the barred windows, but I have been kept informed of certain things through an aged and simple minded servitor, for whom I bore a fondness in infancy, and who like me loves the churchyard."
17602,Even now if we had courage we might be free.
17603,"Its voice was a kind of loathsome titter, and it could speak all languages."
17604,"Seems they get a queer crowd there, for this fellow heard voices in other rooms though most of 'em was empty that gave him the shivers."
17605,I will tell the audient void. . . .
17606,"This spirit existed as a breath, a wish, a far off thought, until communicated to Adrian, who imbibed it with ardour, and instantly engaged himself in plans for its execution."
17607,"'The river Alpheus passed beneath the sea, and emerged without injury to the purity of its waters.'"
17608,"Not but what I think it's the Lord's jedgment fer our iniquities, that no mortal kin ever set aside."" Armitage saw that the time for positive action had come, and spoke decisively to the faltering group of frightened rustics."
17609,"She would never tell what her father and the boy were doing up there, though once she turned pale and displayed an abnormal degree of fear when a jocose fish peddler tried the locked door leading to the stairway."
17610,Hence that positive appetite for system and regularity which has made me the distinguished man of business that I am.
17611,"Manton seemed unimpressed by my arguments, and eager to refute them, having that confidence in his own opinions which had doubtless caused his success as a teacher; whilst I was too sure of my ground to fear defeat."
17612,While they were talking Desrochers dropped in to say that he had heard a terrific clattering overhead in the dark small hours.
17613,"A lamp which had been accidentally left, full of oil, within the tomb, was found empty; it might have been exhausted, however, by evaporation."
17614,"I gave to each heroine of whom I read, her beauty and matchless excellences such was Antigone, when she guided the blind Oedipus to the grove of the Eumenides, and discharged the funeral rites of Polynices; such was Miranda in the unvisited cave of Prospero; such Haidee, on the sands of the Ionian island."
17615,"He got in communication with Dr. Houghton of Aylesbury, who had attended Old Whateley in his last illness, and found much to ponder over in the grandfather's last words as quoted by the physician."
17616,"The trees of the frequent forest belts seem too large, and the wild weeds, brambles, and grasses attain a luxuriance not often found in settled regions."
17617,"I then moved forward, and a murmuring sound arose from the crowd as they followed and surrounded me, when an ill looking man approaching tapped me on the shoulder and said, ""Come, sir, you must follow me to Mr. Kirwin's to give an account of yourself."""
17618,"This I would have asked him had he not been so far away, but he was very far, and could not be seen at all when he drew nigh that gigantic reef."
17619,"The few jewels they had saved, supported them awhile."
17620,Then on his word and will depended my own happiness the fate of all dear to me.
17621,"I watched it attentively until sunset, when it spread all at once to the eastward and westward, girting in the horizon with a narrow strip of vapor, and looking like a long line of low beach."
17622,"Ah, word of no meaning behind whose vast latitude of mere sound we intrench our ignorance of so much of the spiritual."
17623,"Again her name was syllabled, and she shuddered as she asked herself, am I becoming mad, or am I dying, that I hear the voices of the departed?"
17624,"The sight of her, in her present situation, passed like an arrow into his soul."
17625,"Guided by a lightning flash I settled myself down behind a dense clump of vegetation, through which I could see the opening without being seen."
17626,This expectation will now be the consolation of your father.
17627,Do you wonder how it will seem?
17628,"In my nervousness I looked around and discovered a bolt on the clothes press which seemed to be of the same size, judging from the marks, as the one formerly on the door."
17629,"His little old servant Parks, who for years bore patiently with his vagaries, last saw him on the morning he drove off alone in his car with a key he had recently found."
17630,"I copy for your amusement the Knickerbocker inscription on the marble slab: This Corner Stone of a Monument to The Memory of GEORGE WASHINGTON Was Laid With Appropriate Ceremonies on the th Day of October, The anniversary of the surrender of Lord Cornwallis to General Washington at Yorktown A. D. Under the Auspices of the Washington Monument Association of the city of New York This, as I give it, is a verbatim translation done by Pundit himself, so there can be no mistake about it."
17631,"""Very true; but what are they doing here?"""
17632,"""The first thing requisite is to get yourself into such a scrape as no one ever got into before."
17633,"""The island in the distance,"" resumed the old man, ""is called by the Norwegians Vurrgh."
17634,"""Do you not know, my friends,"" I said, ""that the Earl himself, now Lord Protector, visits daily, not only those probably infected by this disease, but the hospitals and pest houses, going near, and even touching the sick?"
17635,"He had read of it with interest, for the paper had told about some strange burrows or passages found in the rocky hill beneath."
17636,"No one knew, no one could imagine; no one not even the burgomaster Mynheer Superbus Von Underduk had the slightest clew by which to unravel the mystery; so, as nothing more reasonable could be done, every one to a man replaced his pipe carefully in the corner of his mouth, and cocking up his right eye towards the phenomenon, puffed, paused, waddled about, and grunted significantly then waddled back, grunted, paused, and finally puffed again."
17637,"The leading article, I must admit, was brilliant not to say severe."
17638,"I had been assured that the old man could do nothing but hint at wild, disjointed, and incredible legends, and I had been warned that the natives made it unsafe to be seen talking to him; yet the thought of this aged witness to the town's decay, with memories going back to the early days of ships and factories, was a lure that no amount of reason could make me resist."
17639,"She seemed to be full of something to which she could not give words; but, seizing an opportunity afforded by Perdita's absence, she preferred to me an earnest prayer, that I would take her within view of the gate at which her father had entered Constantinople."
17640,"He had not been at Oxford for nothing, nor talked to no account with an ancient chymist and astrologer in Paris."
17641,"Can I see George?"" ""See him,"" cried the woman, ""yes, if you go to him; last night he was taken with the plague, and we sent him to the hospital."""
17642,"Here, however, are Moissart, Voissart, Croissart, and Froissart, all in the direct line of descent."
17643,Ten o'clock found me in some fashionable promenade or other place of public amusement.
17644,"""But, in point of fact, an ascension being made to any given altitude, the ponderable quantity of air surmounted in any farther ascension is by no means in proportion to the additional height ascended as may be plainly seen from what has been stated before, but in a ratio constantly decreasing."
17645,"Down from the heights reels the glittering Cassiopeia as the hours wear on, while Charles' Wain lumbers up from behind the vapour soaked swamp trees that sway in the night wind."
17646,"The door resisted even more than I had expected, but I did not give in."
17647,"In solitude, and through many wanderings afar from the haunts of men, he matured his views for the reform of the English government, and the improvement of the people."
17648,"For, in truth, it was at this crisis that taste alone that faculty which, holding a middle position between the pure intellect and the moral sense, could never safely have been disregarded it was now that taste alone could have led us gently back to Beauty, to Nature, and to Life."
17649,"If we went to Italy, to sacred and eternal Rome, we might with greater patience submit to the decree, which had laid her mighty towers low."
17650,"The reality of what I had been through was highly uncertain in my mind, but I felt that something hideous lay in the background."
17651,"I met troops of horses, herds of cattle, flocks of sheep, wandering at will; here throwing down a hay rick, and nestling from cold in its heart, which afforded them shelter and food there having taken possession of a vacant cottage."
17652,But that cannot be; the human senses are insurmountable barriers to our union.
17653,"The mountains of Switzerland are more majestic and strange, but there is a charm in the banks of this divine river that I never before saw equalled."
17654,"And thus, joy suddenly faded into horror, and the most beautiful became the most hideous, as Hinnon became Ge Henna."
17655,"In the meantime, as it was very certain that I would be attacked in the Fly for my attempt at composing a rival poem on the ""Oil of Bob,"" he Mr. Crab, would take it upon himself to attend, pointedly, to my private and personal interests."
17656,"From that period the ship, being thrown dead off the wind, has continued her terrific course due south, with every rag of canvas packed upon her, from her trucks to her lower studding sail booms, and rolling every moment her top gallant yard arms into the most appalling hell of water which it can enter into the mind of a man to imagine."
17657,To reach either of these lines of buildings I would have to be in a room two doors from my own in one case on the north and in the other case on the south and my mind instantly set to work calculating what chances I had of making the transfer.
17658,"He declares that at no period was he altogether insensible that, dully and confusedly, he was aware of everything which happened to him, from the moment in which he was pronounced dead by his physicians, to that in which he fell swooning to the floor of the hospital."
17659,There is no trace or tidings of her at all....
17660,"Persecuted and tortured as I am and have been, can death be any evil to me?"" ""Nothing indeed could be more unfortunate and agonizing than the strange chances that have lately occurred."
17661,"I have devoted my creator, the select specimen of all that is worthy of love and admiration among men, to misery; I have pursued him even to that irremediable ruin."
17662,"The deep, the poignant, the overwhelming mortification, which upon each such failure of his praise worthy endeavors, would suffuse every lineament of his countenance, left not the slightest room for doubt of his sincerity in the bosoms of even his most skeptical companions."
17663,"The nature of Perdita was less perfect; but tenderness and happiness improved her temper, and softened her natural reserve."
17664,I tried to soothe her; I bade her hope; I asked what tremendous consequences would ensue even on our failure.
17665,IT was a quiet and still afternoon when I strolled forth in the goodly city of Edina.
17666,"The mind of Raymond was not so rough cast, nor had been so rudely handled, in the circumstance of life, as to make him proof to these considerations on the contrary, he was all nerve; his spirit was as a pure fire, which fades and shrinks from every contagion of foul atmosphere: but now the contagion had become incorporated with its essence, and the change was the more painful."
17667,"In draughts, on the contrary, where the moves are unique and have but little variation, the probabilities of inadvertence are diminished, and the mere attention being left comparatively unemployed, what advantages are obtained by either party are obtained by superior acumen."
17668,"His father, the Minister G , died young."
17669,"But pardon me, I entreat you and listen to me: do not turn away from me; do not be impatient; you may easily intimidate me into silence, but my heart is bursting, nor can I willingly consent to endure for one moment longer the agony of uncertitude which for the last four months has been my portion."
17670,"Clara often accompanied him in these excursions; partly that she might see her parents, partly because Adrian delighted in the prattle, and intelligent looks of this lovely child."
17671,"The porter opened the gates of the court, which had that night been my asylum, and I issued into the streets, pacing them with quick steps, as if I sought to avoid the wretch whom I feared every turning of the street would present to my view."
17672,My mother's tender caresses and my father's smile of benevolent pleasure while regarding me are my first recollections.
17673,The youth's own pastor Dr. Wallace of Asbury M. E. Church in Arkham had gravely urged him not to join any church in Innsmouth.
17674,"This was done by fellows who had no pocket handkerchief."""
17675,"I sought the hills; a west wind swept them, and the stars glittered above."
17676,"But no care could re animate her, no medicine cause her dear eyes to open, and the blood to flow again from her pulseless heart."
17677,"Alas ye were the last of happiness that I ever enjoyed; a few, a very few weeks and all was destroyed."
17678,"Windsor is not my home; my true home I have found; the home that the Creator has prepared for me."""
17679,"No man in Holland certainly; yet here, under the very noses of the people, or rather at some distance above their noses was the identical thing in question, and composed, I have it on the best authority, of the precise material which no one had ever before known to be used for a similar purpose."
17680,"Clocks time space infinity and then my fancy reverted to the local as I reflected that even now, beyond the roof and the fog and the rain and the atmosphere, Corona Borealis was rising in the northeast."
17681,"This companion dying, the animal fell into his own exclusive possession."
17682,Then you stop and grind; looking as if you meant to stop and grind till doomsday.
17683,"Sir Robert himself, after repeated attempts at suicide and a stubborn refusal to utter any articulate sound, died of apoplexy in the second year of his confinement."
17684,"It was plain that Manton knew more than I, but he told nothing to the puzzled and interested physicians till he had learned what our injuries were."
17685,"Do your duty towards me, and I will do mine towards you and the rest of mankind."
17686,"London, which had extended so far in suburbs in all direction, had been somewhat deserted in the midst, and much of what had in former days obscured this vast building was removed."
17687,"Even as she spoke I drew near to her, as if in terror, lest at that very moment the destroyer had been near to rob me of her."
17688,"It being still daylight, I descended to the Square and looked around for a dinner of some sort; noticing as I did so the strange glances I received from the unwholesome loafers."
17689,"Thus the happy dandy Flos Aeris of Java bears, it is said, a beautiful flower, which will live when pulled up by the roots."
17690,"What, indeed, was my passion for the young girl of the valley in comparison with the fervor, and the delirium, and the spirit lifting ecstasy of adoration with which I poured out my whole soul in tears at the feet of the ethereal Ermengarde?"
17691,"""Sure nuff, massa; mus look."
17692,"The stones that once obstructed the way had been carefully placed not thrown along the sides of the lane, so as to define its boundaries at bottom with a kind of half precise, half negligent, and wholly picturesque definition."
17693,"The youth's febrile mind, apparently, was dwelling on strange things; and the doctor shuddered now and then as he spoke of them."
17694,"Even broken in spirit as he is, no one can feel more deeply than he does the beauties of nature."
17695,I held the lantern motionless.
17696,"On their departure, they took the road to some thick woods in the vicinity."
17697,"He was a small, lean, bent person, with shabby clothes, blue eyes, grotesque, satyr like face, and nearly bald head; and at my first words seemed both angered and frightened."
17698,"The youth said that he was very restless, seldom sitting around the station for more than an hour or two at a time."
17699,"And because my fathers had called me to the old town beyond, I pushed on through the shallow, new fallen snow along the road that soared lonely up to where Aldebaran twinkled among the trees; on toward the very ancient town I had never seen but often dreamed of."
17700,"But then, the homes and sheds of Dunwich folk have never been remarkable for olfactory immaculateness."
17701,"I shall not pause in my exertions until that time; but, if plague revives with the coming year, all contest with her must cease, and our only occupation be the choice of a grave."""
17702,"I ventured a jest or two, and he made a sickening attempt at a smile."
17703,We are said to love much those whom we greatly benefit.
17704,Erringly and strangely she began the task of self examination with self condemnation.
17705,"Yes he would let him see how much he was mistaken, the puppy He, Touch and go Bullet head, of Frogpondium, would let Mr. John Smith perceive that he, Bullet head, could indite, if it so pleased him, a whole paragraph aye a whole article in which that contemptible vowel should not once not even once make its appearance."
17706,On her deathbed the fortitude and benignity of this best of women did not desert her.
17707,"She longed to bid me hasten my return; a thousand conflicting emotions rendered her mute as she bade me a tearful, silent farewell."
17708,"Now, at this evening hour, at the period of repose and refection, methinks all hearts breathe one hymn of love and thanksgiving, and we, like priests of old on the mountain tops, give a voice to their sentiment."
17709,"This marked the beginning of a course of cattle buying on the part of small Wilbur's family which ended only in , when the Dunwich horror came and went; yet at no time did the ramshackle Whateley barn seem overcrowded with livestock."
17710,"If you can, in any way, make it convenient, come over with Jupiter."
17711,There was Bibulus O'Bumper.
17712,"It had been displayed early in life, leading her out to solitary musing among her native mountains, causing her to form innumerous combinations from common objects, giving strength to her perceptions, and swiftness to their arrangement."
17713,I have detailed the perfections of my sister; and yet she was utterly unlike Idris.
17714,"I was like you once, and I did it."
17715,"Her passions had subdued her appetites, even her natural wants; she slept little, and hardly ate at all; her body was evidently considered by her as a mere machine, whose health was necessary for the accomplishment of her schemes, but whose senses formed no part of her enjoyment."
17716,"What are your plans, my Lord Protector, for the benefit of our country?"""
17717,"You, therefore, did not design the skull, and no one else was present to do it."
17718,My opinion of my whole experience varies from time to time.
17719,"""Dolt"" said the third."
17720,"On the contrary, she seemed strangely proud of the dark, goatish looking infant who formed such a contrast to her own sickly and pink eyed albinism, and was heard to mutter many curious prophecies about its unusual powers and tremendous future."
17721,"Are you a coward, Woodville?"
17722,By degrees the idea of cultivation subsided into that of merely pastoral care.
17723,"I do not say that if his own desires had been put in competition with those of others that he would have displayed undue selfishness, but this trial was never made."
17724,The rest of the shank was in the gimlet hole where it had been broken off.
17725,"Soon our poor nurse expired; and the anguish of suspense was changed to deep regret, which though at first more painful, yet yielded with greater readiness to my consolations."
17726,"""If she is, God forbid that she should suffer as guilty."
17727,"With one exception, you are the only human being besides myself and my valet, who has been admitted within the mysteries of these imperial precincts, since they have been bedizzened as you see"" I bowed in acknowledgment for the overpowering sense of splendor and perfume, and music, together with the unexpected eccentricity of his address and manner, prevented me from expressing, in words, my appreciation of what I might have construed into a compliment."
17728,A man would make but a very sorry chemist if he attended to that department of human knowledge alone.
17729,"The removal of the slab revealed a black aperture, from which rushed an effluence of miasmal gases so nauseous that we started back in horror."
17730,"She is a year nearer unto Death; for I did not fail to see that, as she came into the shade, her shadow fell from her, and was swallowed up in the dark water, making its blackness more black."""
17731,"""Food, however, became scarce, and I often spent the whole day searching in vain for a few acorns to assuage the pangs of hunger."
17732,"Down unpaved side streets I saw the black, gaping windows of deserted hovels, many of which leaned at perilous and incredible angles through the sinking of part of the foundations."
17733,I stepped boldly and briskly forward.
17734,After that I went to Sydney and talked profitlessly with seamen and members of the vice admiralty court.
17735,I noticed that at least two thirds of these guests were ladies; and some of the latter were by no means accoutred in what a Parisian would consider good taste at the present day.
17736,"What wonder, then, that the lath like tenuity of my acquaintance, and his altitude, which has grown into a proverb, should have met with all due estimation in the eyes of Mrs. Lackobreath."
17737,"Before, she had been visited by pangs of fear now, she never enjoyed an interval of hope."
17738,"They could picture to their imaginations a mode many modes and a motive many motives; and because it was not impossible that either of these numerous modes and motives could have been the actual one, they have taken it for granted that one of them must."
17739,"""This,"" said I at length, to the old man ""this can be nothing else than the great whirlpool of the Maelström."""
17740,Encourage the people by your presence.
17741,"""Do you know what that is?"" he whispered."
17742,Had he himself talked as well as walked around the house in his sleep?
17743,"Once a writing of his fell into Perdita's hands; it was blotted with tears well might any blot it with the like ""Life"" it began thus ""is not the thing romance writers describe it; going through the measures of a dance, and after various evolutions arriving at a conclusion, when the dancers may sit down and repose."
17744,"She seated herself then on the same ottoman where I had left her in the morning resting on the beating heart of her Raymond; I dared not approach her, but sat at a distant corner, watching her starting and nervous gestures."
17745,"But during the dreams they did not horrify me at all I was one with them; wearing their unhuman trappings, treading their aqueous ways, and praying monstrously at their evil sea bottom temples."
17746,We had entered the Castle.
17747,I earned that; I deserved it.
17748,"I took the entire building, room by room; devoting the nights of a whole week to each."
17749,"we, especially, who occupy the mid region of the cluster the very locality near which, at least, must be situated this inconceivable central sun."
17750,He held out his hand with almost a bashful air.
17751,"I then went to Idris, contriving in my way, plausible excuses for remaining all day in the Castle, and endeavouring to disperse the traces of care from my brow."
17752,I wish to look through it.
17753,But through the whole period during which I was the slave of my creature I allowed myself to be governed by the impulses of the moment; and my present sensations strongly intimated that the fiend would follow me and exempt my family from the danger of his machinations.
17754,"He is now much recovered from his illness and is continually on the deck, apparently watching for the sledge that preceded his own."
17755,"Life had become an insistent and almost unendurable cacophony, and there was that constant, terrifying impression of other sounds perhaps from regions beyond life trembling on the very brink of audibility."
17756,"""Read now,"" replied Dupin, ""this passage from Cuvier."""
17757,"'The Prince of ts,' therefore, is upon his hinder legs, running for his life."
17758,The mere presence of the idea was an irresistible proof of the fact.
17759,"We all hed to take the Oath o' Dagon, an' later on they was secon' an' third Oaths that some on us took."
17760,"All at once the dog started up abruptly, gave a frightened bark, and leaped nervously out of the window by which it had entered."
17761,"The old ledger was at length given wholly into the charge of Dr. Armitage, both because of his peculiar interest in the Whateley matter, and because of his wide linguistic learning and skill in the mystical formulae of antiquity and the Middle Ages."
17762,"Turning my head gently to one side, I perceived, to my extreme horror, that the huge, glittering, scimetar like minute hand of the clock had, in the course of its hourly revolution, descended upon my neck."
17763,"I reproached myself bitterly for what I called a culpable weakness; but this weakness returned upon me whenever the critical moment approached, and I never found courage to depart."
17764,"It was amply large enough for a man to wriggle through; and though no sane person would have tried it at that time, I forgot danger, reason, and cleanliness in my single minded fever to unearth the lurking fear."
17765,"Each alteration of the natural scenery may possibly effect a blemish in the picture, if we can suppose this picture viewed at large in mass from some point distant from the earth's surface, although not beyond the limits of its atmosphere."
17766,"Three of the Emma's men, including Capt."
17767,"""P.S. by Mr. Ainsworth."
17768,"I will change my plate, however, and try some of the rabbit."""
17769,This promise drew from me the warmest thanks.
17770,"It had not left behind quite all that it had attacked, for sometimes it had been hungry."
17771,"Quitting the wall, I resolved to cross the area of the enclosure."
17772,"For several days ensuing, her name was unmentioned by either Usher or myself: and during this period I was busied in earnest endeavors to alleviate the melancholy of my friend."
17773,"For that very fresh body, at last writhing into full and terrifying consciousness with eyes dilated at the memory of its last scene on earth, threw out its frantic hands in a life and death struggle with the air; and suddenly collapsing into a second and final dissolution from which there could be no return, screamed out the cry that will ring eternally in my aching brain: ""Help Keep off, you cursed little tow head fiend keep that damned needle away from me"" V."
17774,"She thanked him in the most ardent terms for his intended services towards her parent, and at the same time she gently deplored her own fate."
17775,"Upon the whole, no person could be less liable than myself to be led away from the severe precincts of truth by the ignes fatui of superstition."
17776,"The men in olive drab could not tell what was happening, or what they ought to do; for the swart, sinister men were skilled in subtlety and concealment."
17777,and vat den? vat de matter now?
17778,"His rank his least merit, do you say?"
17779,I knew myself no longer.
17780,"Indeed, there were always vague local tales of unexplained stenches upstairs in the Witch House just after May Eve and Hallowmass."
17781,"""Wal, as I says, the natives met the things on the little volcanic islet goin' thar in canoes with the sacrifices et cet'ry, and bringin' back any of the gold like jools as was comin' to 'em."
17782,"Heh, heh, heh, heh. . ."
17783,For many days Adrian and Idris continued to visit me thus.
17784,"As it was, trembling, cold, and pale, she sought Raymond."
17785,"A sufficient analysis will show that pleasure, in all cases, is but the contrast of pain."
17786,"""Pardon me,"" he replied, ""if I have offended."
17787,"All this appeared to me, I own, methodized madness."
17788,Would they refuse him?
17789,"I did not fail to observe, also, the form of the parchment."
17790,"Though not as yet licenced physicians, we now had our degrees, and were pressed frantically into public service as the numbers of the stricken grew."
17791,"In his brief conversation the stranger had made it clear that he was unknown in Bolton, and a search of his pockets subsequently revealed him to be one Robert Leavitt of St. Louis, apparently without a family to make instant inquiries about his disappearance."
17792,The confession I am about to make will add another to the already almost innumerable instances of the truth of the position.
17793,"But, ere long the heaven of this pure affection became darkened, and gloom, and horror, and grief swept over it in clouds."
17794,"Its shrill loathsome tittering stuck more and more in Gilman's head, and he could remember in the morning how it had pronounced the words ""Azathoth"" and ""Nyarlathotep""."
17795,"Thus the pressure of your sweet fingers upon my eyelids, at first only recognised through vision, at length, long after their removal, filled my whole being with a sensual delight immeasurable."
17796,"In this sweet tongue, so adapted to passion, I gave loose to the impetuous enthusiasm of my nature, and, with all the eloquence I could command, besought her to consent to an immediate marriage."
17797,"""Farewell I leave you, and in you the last of humankind whom these eyes will ever behold."
17798,Meanwhile there grew up about the mansion and the mountain a body of diabolic legendry.
17799,"Yet I fear such will be my fate; the men, unsupported by ideas of glory and honour, can never willingly continue to endure their present hardships."
17800,"But these they do exceedingly well, and intersperse them, with singular ingenuity, wherever they find room for the chisel."
17801,"For some minutes after this fancy possessed me, I remained without motion."
17802,"When Raymond offered to clear her reputation, and demonstrate to the world her real patriotism, she declared that it was only through her present sufferings that she hoped for any relief to the stings of conscience; that, in her state of mind, diseased as he might think it, the necessity of occupation was salutary medicine; she ended by extorting a promise that for the space of one month he would refrain from the discussion of her interests, engaging after that time to yield in part to his wishes."
17803,"Idris, you will not act the traitor towards me?"" ""Trust me,"" replied she, ""I will preserve a strict neutrality."""
17804,"This operation being repeated several times, at length filled the chamber with atmosphere proper for all the purposes of respiration."
17805,"There had, Mr. Peabody said, been considerable discussion about the marriage of her father, Benjamin Orne, just after the Civil War; since the ancestry of the bride was peculiarly puzzling."
17806,"Among these odd folk, who correspond exactly to the decadent element of ""white trash"" in the South, law and morals are non existent; and their general mental status is probably below that of any other section of the native American people."
17807,We mean you no harm whatever.
17808,You came the embodied image of my fondest dreams.
17809,"Years hence we shall recount to them our fears, then passed away with their occasion."
17810,Perdita smiled faintly her guest left her; the carriage rolling down the street assured the final departure.
17811,"This done, and the dog having been unmuzzled, we turned in profound silence towards home."
17812,"At one period I thought of cutting the corpse into minute fragments, and destroying them by fire."
17813,"We were fatigued by our struggles to attain this point, and seated ourselves on the rocky couch, while the sounds of tinkling sheep bells, and shout of shepherd boy, reached us from above."
17814,"I now remembered that, in fact, a fruiterer, carrying upon his head a large basket of apples, had nearly thrown me down, by accident, as we passed from the Rue C into the thoroughfare where we stood; but what this had to do with Chantilly I could not possibly understand."
17815,Let us pursue our fancies.
17816,"That Gilman talked in his sleep was plain, and it was obviously from Desrochers' keyhole listenings that the delusive notion of the violet dream light had got abroad."
17817,"I had been deceived, too, in respect to the shape of the enclosure."
17818,"Clearly, my nerves were sorely taxed, and I must cast off these impressions of weaker men."
17819,"The old man saw it, and stopped whispering even before my expression of horror made it necessary; saw it and glanced quickly toward the floor of the room he had left an hour before."
17820,"Nobly and greatly, he said, had the illustrious and last sovereign of England sacrificed himself to the apparent good of his country, and divested himself of a power which could only be maintained by the blood of his subjects these subjects named so no more, these, his friends and equals, had in gratitude conferred certain favours and distinctions on him and his family for ever."
17821,"""Oh, it is not thus not thus,"" interrupted the being."
17822,"A terrace, with an old moss covered balustrade, calls up at once to the eye, the fair forms that have passed there in other days."
17823,"And den he keep a syphon all de time "" ""Keeps a what, Jupiter?"" ""Keeps a syphon wid de figgurs on de slate de queerest figgurs I ebber did see."
17824,"The curtain drew up, and the stage presented the scene of the witches' cave."
17825,"Old Man Marsh was never seen, but sometimes went to the works in a closed, curtained car."
17826,"""True true,"" I replied; ""and, indeed, I had no intention of alarming you unnecessarily but you should use all proper caution."
17827,"My mule was brought to the door, and I resolved to ascend to the summit of Montanvert."
17828,"The rabble were in terror, for upon an evil tenement had fallen a red death beyond the foulest previous crime of the neighbourhood."
17829,"For example, the servant gossip was practically unanimous in attributing to the fungous and malodorous cellar of the house a vast supremacy in evil influence."
17830,"Diddling, rightly considered, is a compound, of which the ingredients are minuteness, interest, perseverance, ingenuity, audacity, nonchalance, originality, impertinence, and grin."
17831,"My parents, in dying, had bequeathed me to him as a rich legacy."
17832,"""Our author's observations on the artificial style of gardening,"" continued Mr. Ellison, ""are less objectionable."
17833,Now the direct inference from this is that the machine is not a pure machine.
17834,"so did he spring up from listlessness and unproductive thought, to the highest pitch of virtuous action."
17835,"At this horror I sank nearly to the lichened earth, transfixed with a dread not of this nor any world, but only of the mad spaces between the stars."
17836,The mathematics afford no more absolute demonstrations than the sentiments of his art yields the artist.
17837,"God, what a rage I'd hate to have it aimed at me ""Why did you do it, Birch?"
17838,"I could sleep a little after they had done this, but true rest will never come as long as I remember that nameless secret of the lurking fear."
17839,The police were thoroughly satisfied and prepared to depart.
17840,"She thought of the treasure she possessed in the affections of her lord; of his accomplishments, surpassing those of his contemporaries, his genius, his devotion to her."
17841,"To suspect evil, to perceive that, Alfred being with us, the danger must regard her youngest darling, to fly across the long chambers into his apartment, was the work but of a moment."
17842,"And whether it were to visit beautiful scenery, or to see fine pictures, or sometimes for no object but to seek amusement as it might chance to arise, I was always happy when near my father."
17843,"The dazzling sun and glare of daylight, deprived the scene of solemnity; from Evadne's low tomb, I joined Raymond and his staff, now on their way to the Golden City."
17844,"The dreams were wholly beyond the pale of sanity, and Gilman felt that they must be a result, jointly, of his studies in mathematics and in folklore."
17845,"A little patience, and all will be over; aye, a very little patience; for, look, there is the key of our prison; we hold it in our own hands, and are we more debased than slaves to cast it away and give ourselves up to voluntary bondage?"
17846,"Adrian's chief endeavour, after the immediate succour of the sick, had been to disguise the symptoms and progress of the plague from the inhabitants of London."
17847,She appeared of a different stock.
17848,"Lest you think me a biassed witness, another's pen must add this final testimony, which may perhaps supply the climax you expect."
17849,"This is all which is proved, if any thing is."
17850,"The spirit of his vows he made no scruple of setting at naught, but the letter was a bond inviolable."
17851,"I should there find solitude where I might weep, and the voices of life might never reach me."
17852,"At last the French element had appeared that, and another deeper element of horror which the name conjured up from the darkest recesses of my weird and heterogeneous reading and I feverishly studied the platting of the locality as it had been before the cutting through and partial straightening of Back Street between and ."
17853,"And yet all the morning, and indeed until late in the afternoon, there was a gentle and steady breeze from the south west, while the sun shone brightly, so that the oldest seaman among us could not have foreseen what was to follow."
17854,"""Referring, now, to the beginning of the cryptograph, we find the combination, ."
17855,"I mention this circumstance, because I think it probable that hereafter the individual in question may attempt a balloon ascension with the novel gas and material I have spoken of, and I do not wish to deprive him of the honor of a very singular invention."
17856,"That Von Kempelen and his immediate friends will reap a rich harvest, it would be folly to doubt for a moment."
17857,It was then that the most horrible impression of all was borne in upon me the impression which destroyed my last vestige of self control and set me running frantically southward past the yawning black doorways and fishily staring windows of that deserted nightmare street.
17858,My tenderness of heart was even so conspicuous as to make me the jest of my companions.
17859,"Despondency rarely visited my heart; a high destiny seemed to bear me on, until I fell, never, never again to rise."""
17860,"August th, You have read this strange and terrific story, Margaret; and do you not feel your blood congeal with horror, like that which even now curdles mine?"
17861,"Tell me, however, in what way he passes his time; what he is doing and thinking in his cottage retreat?"" ""Nay, my sweet sister,"" replied Adrian, ""you ask me more than I can well answer; but if you feel interest in him, why not visit him?"
17862,"She seemed pleased and went into the garden for some roots and plants, which she placed in water, and then upon the fire."
17863,We could not perceive its necessity.
17864,It were useless to record the debate that followed this harangue.
17865,"From a position fronting my own, he had gradually brought round his chair, so as to sit with his face to the door of the chamber; and thus I could but partially perceive his features, although I saw that his lips trembled as if he were murmuring inaudibly."
17866,"Gasping, not daring to name our hopes, yet full even to the brim with intense expectation, we stood, as a ship wrecked sailor stands on a barren rock islanded by the ocean, watching a distant vessel, fancying that now it nears, and then again that it is bearing from sight."
17867,"After a tiresome harangue in his ordinary style, he took down from his book shelves a number of musty volumes on the subject of the duello, and entertained me for a long time with their contents; reading aloud, and commenting earnestly as he read."
17868,"Although more than sixteen years had passed since her death nothing had been changed; her work box, her writing desk were still there and in her room a book lay open on the table as she had left it."
17869,"All at once my attention was captured by a vast and singular object on the opposite slope, which rose steeply about an hundred yards ahead of me; an object that gleamed whitely in the newly bestowed rays of the ascending moon."
17870,"Was it not probable that these symptoms would increase indefinitely, or at least until terminated by death itself?"
17871,But don't get the idea that it was all this hideous business of theme and setting which struck me faint.
17872,"His soul seemed to distil itself into the words he wrote; and they breathed on the paper, bearing with them a portion of the life of love, which was his life."
17873,"But during the tumult occasioned by this occurrence, the young nobleman himself sat apparently buried in meditation, in a vast and desolate upper apartment of the family palace of Metzengerstein."
17874,I bent over her and placed the portrait securely in one of the folds of her dress.
17875,"On this occasion, my sister was not alone; nor could I fail to recognise her companion: it was Idris, the till now unseen object of my mad idolatry."
17876,"I say, you shall have Kate and her plum when three Sundays come together in a week but not till then you young scapegrace not till then, if I die for it."
17877,"I brought Rosalind and Miranda and the lady of Comus to life to be my companions, or on my isle acted over their parts imagining myself to be in their situations."
17878,"As it came fully into view thus gradually as I describe it piece by piece, here a tree, there a glimpse of water, and here again the summit of a chimney, I could scarcely help fancying that the whole was one of the ingenious illusions sometimes exhibited under the name of ""vanishing pictures."""
17879,She was uncomplaining; but the very soul of fear had taken its seat in her heart.
17880,"I was making money at this business when, in an evil moment, I was induced to merge it in the Cur Spattering a somewhat analogous, but, by no means, so respectable a profession."
17881,"I followed the accounts languidly at first, for I am a connoisseur in horrors; but after a week I detected an atmosphere which stirred me oddly, so that on August th, , I registered among the reporters who crowded the hotel at Lefferts Corners, nearest village to Tempest Mountain and acknowledged headquarters of the searchers."
17882,"But I am about to die nay, interrupt me not soon I shall die."
17883,"I can't read an Anacreontic without watering at the mouth and it's something a lot stronger than water that my mouth waters for"" ""Anacreontic what 'n hell's that?"" several hangers on looked up as the young man went slightly beyond their depth."
17884,And the remembrance fills your heart sometimes with bitter despair when otherwise your feelings would have melted into soft sorrow.
17885,"Would to God I had let them share the search, that I might not have had to bear the secret alone so long; to bear it alone for fear the world would call me mad or go mad itself at the daemon implications of the thing."
17886,The coat was nearly new.
17887,"She made it her task to attend the sick, comfort the sorrowing, assist the aged, and partake the sports and awaken the gaiety of the young."
17888,"A piece of one of the unfortunate girl's petticoats, two feet long and one foot wide, was torn out and tied under her chin around the back of her head, probably to prevent screams."
17889,"I would have prevented this; my death would be a small evil or rather I should not die; while you cannot hope to escape."""
17890,"But now there were twelve strokes to be sounded by the bell of the clock; and thus it happened, perhaps, that more of thought crept, with more of time, into the meditations of the thoughtful among those who revelled."
17891,"He hurried in, and witnessed the termination of my impassioned harangue."
17892,"My knowledge of the thing began in the winter of with the death of my grand uncle George Gammell Angell, Professor Emeritus of Semitic Languages in Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island."
17893,"Possibly, many suggested, she was the natural daughter of some Marsh of prominence she certainly had the true Marsh eyes."
17894,"After passing some months in London, we received a letter from a person in Scotland who had formerly been our visitor at Geneva."
17895,"""But your grandiloquence, and your conduct in swinging the beetle how excessively odd I was sure you were mad."
17896,"The young girl was occupied in arranging the cottage; but presently she took something out of a drawer, which employed her hands, and she sat down beside the old man, who, taking up an instrument, began to play and to produce sounds sweeter than the voice of the thrush or the nightingale."
17897,Must he tax the landed interest to assist our commercial population?
17898,"Carefully locking the door on the inside, I commenced a vigorous search."
17899,"A bubbling spring prattles over stones on one side, and a plantation of a few elms and beeches, hardly deserve, and yet continue the name of wood."
17900,The second object of the cloth is to deaden and render indistinct all sounds occasioned by the movements of the person within. .
17901,In the meantime he told me that my friend had certainly not many hours to live.
17902,"One man's life or death were but a small price to pay for the acquirement of the knowledge which I sought, for the dominion I should acquire and transmit over the elemental foes of our race."
17903,"This will I do, I said."
17904,"""And you have now changed all this and you think for the better?"" ""Decidedly."
17905,"Remember that I am thy creature; I ought to be thy Adam, but I am rather the fallen angel, whom thou drivest from joy for no misdeed."
17906,She pictured to herself the anguish of his solitude; she remembered with what eager delight he had in former days made her the partner of his joyful hopes with what grateful affection he received her sympathy in his cares.
17907,"The excited countryside immediately connected the horror with the haunted Martense mansion, though the localities were over three miles apart."
17908,"Them things told the Kanakys that ef they mixed bloods there'd be children as ud look human at fust, but later turn more'n more like the things, till finally they'd take to the water an' jine the main lot o' things daown thar."
17909,"He is not, however, as you suppose, dizzy with magnificence, nor drunk with the ecstatic breath of those innumerable censers."
17910,"Another was a hickory, much larger than the elm, and altogether a much finer tree, although both were exceedingly beautiful: it seemed to have taken charge of the northwestern entrance, springing from a group of rocks in the very jaws of the ravine, and throwing its graceful body, at an angle of nearly forty five degrees, far out into the sunshine of the amphitheatre."
17911,"However this may be, it is certain that they worshipped a sea green stone idol chiselled in the likeness of Bokrug, the great water lizard; before which they danced horribly when the moon was gibbous."
17912,"But the tumult without becoming suddenly more violent, with a compulsory exertion he diverted his attention to the glare of ruddy light thrown full by the flaming stables upon the windows of the apartment."
17913,"""And then,"" said a cadaverous looking personage, near the foot of the table, taking up the thread of the conversation where it had been broken off, ""and then, among other oddities, we had a patient, once upon a time, who very pertinaciously maintained himself to be a Cordova cheese, and went about, with a knife in his hand, soliciting his friends to try a small slice from the middle of his leg."""
17914,Meantime I sank aghast into the chair which she had vacated.
17915,"""Indeed;"" repeated the vassal."
17916,"They often, I believe, suffered the pangs of hunger very poignantly, especially the two younger cottagers, for several times they placed food before the old man when they reserved none for themselves."
17917,It had lost an arm if it had been a perfect body we might have succeeded better.
17918,But the task imposed on Perdita was not the less painful.
17919,"One night he had burst wildly into Sheehan's, foaming at the mouth and screaming for whiskey and hasheesh; and having been supplied in exchange for a promise to perform odd jobs, had hung about ever since, mopping floors, cleaning cuspidors and glasses, and attending to an hundred similar menial duties in exchange for the drink and drugs which were necessary to keep him alive and sane."
17920,I started up and resolved to return to Geneva with all possible speed.
17921,"Atop the tallest of earth's peaks dwell the gods of earth, and suffer no man to tell that he hath looked upon them."
17922,"Do not you desert me in the hour of trial' ""'Great God' exclaimed the old man."
17923,The shrill voice was very loud louder than the gruff one.
17924,He's supposed to have developed some skin disease or deformity late in life that makes him keep out of sight.
17925,Let him send me this regiment.
17926,"He had endeavoured to persuade his father to permit him to accompany me and to become my fellow student, but in vain."
17927,We feared the coming summer.
17928,"Ever since my recovery from the fever I had been in the custom of taking every night a small quantity of laudanum, for it was by means of this drug only that I was enabled to gain the rest necessary for the preservation of life."
17929,"The shrieking, roaring confusion of sound which permeated the abysses was past all analysis as to pitch, timbre, or rhythm; but seemed to be synchronous with vague visual changes in all the indefinite objects, organic and inorganic alike."
17930,"They are encrusted with nitre."""
17931,"There were, however, many particulars inducing me to believe that my average rate of travelling might possibly very much exceed that of thirty miles per hour, and, as these considerations did not fail to make a deep impression upon my mind, I will mention them more fully hereafter."
17932,"""I forget your arms."""
17933,I caught it from Fatquack whizz fizz and I am giving you a specimen of it now.
17934,"""And then,"" said some other one of the party, ""then there was Bouffon Le Grand another extraordinary personage in his way."
17935,"And as she breathed her last sighs, there came mingled with them a low murmur from her lips."
17936,"But in regard to the shrill voice, the peculiarity is not that they disagreed but that, while an Italian, an Englishman, a Spaniard, a Hollander, and a Frenchman attempted to describe it, each one spoke of it as that of a foreigner."
17937,"His connection with Adrian and Perdita was never mentioned; he was to her a meteor, a companionless star, which at its appointed hour rose in her hemisphere, whose appearance brought felicity, and which, although it set, was never eclipsed."
17938,"His body was a wine pipe, or a rum puncheon, or something of that character, and had a truly Falstaffian air."
17939,I planned the whole scene with an earnest heart and franticly set my soul on this project.
17940,"I could not see his face, but had an opportunity of observing his general appearance."
17941,"I again plunged into excess, and soon drowned in wine all memory of the deed."
17942,"As I surveyed this quaint apartment, I felt an increase in that aversion first excited by the bleak exterior of the house."
17943,I found it a matter of exceeding difficulty to squeeze myself in.
17944,"I was firmly convinced in my own mind that Justine, and indeed every human being, was guiltless of this murder."
17945,"You behold around you, it is true, a medley of architectural embellishments."
17946,"The legs were at full length; the arms were nearly so, and reposed on the bed at a moderate distance from the loin."
17947,He compared the royal and republican spirit; shewed how the one tended to enslave the minds of men; while all the institutions of the other served to raise even the meanest among us to something great and good.
17948,"In Babson Street, which crossed Federal and might thus reveal me to the searchers, I clung as closely as possible to the sagging, uneven buildings; twice pausing in a doorway as the noises behind me momentarily increased."
17949,"When I stood on my native hills, and saw plain and mountain stretch out to the utmost limits of my vision, speckled by the dwellings of my countrymen, and subdued to fertility by their labours, the earth's very centre was fixed for me in that spot, and the rest of her orb was as a fable, to have forgotten which would have cost neither my imagination nor understanding an effort."
17950,"The new gas is doing wonders, in conjunction with the new improvement with gutta percha."
17951,"What annoyed me was merely the persistent way in which the volume tended to fall open of itself at Plate XII, which represented in gruesome detail a butcher's shop of the cannibal Anziques."
17952,I wait in quiet expectation for the closing hours of a life which has been to me most sweet bitter.
17953,"""More space, Willy, more space soon."
17954,"In my case, the primary object was invariably frivolous, although assuming, through the medium of my distempered vision, a refracted and unreal importance."
17955,"In the third volume of the ""American Quarterly Review"" will be found quite an elaborate criticism upon a certain ""journey"" of the kind in question a criticism in which it is difficult to say whether the critic most exposes the stupidity of the book, or his own absurd ignorance of astronomy."
17956,"It is to the absence of idiosyncratic organs, therefore, that we must attribute the nearly unlimited perception of the ultimate life."
17957,"And I lay close within shelter of the lilies, and observed the actions of the man."
17958,"Not that the matter might not have been as inferred, but that there was no ground for the inference: was there not much for another?"
17959,Then I noticed a few inhabited houses with rags stuffed in the broken windows and shells and dead fish lying about the littered yards.
17960,"There was only one person in sight an elderly man without what I had come to call the ""Innsmouth look"" and I decided not to ask him any of the questions which bothered me; remembering that odd things had been noticed in this hotel."
17961,"By this time the restoration of the house was finished, and those who watched it wondered why one of the upper windows had been made into a solid plank door."
17962,"The thing done, however; the wonder accomplished; and the capacity for apprehension becomes universal."
17963,"You may deem me romantic, my dear sister, but I bitterly feel the want of a friend."
17964,Sometimes she felt proud that he had preferred her to the hopes of a crown.
17965,"""We say, 'most intelligible' 'Oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, will be kind enough to tell us, perhaps, how 'hail' can be 'holy light' We always regarded it as frozen rain."
17966,You grieve because you are unhappy; it is happiness you seek but you despair of obtaining it.
17967,"It seemed to lead up, up like a natural causeway, into the recesses of unexplored mountains and forests."
17968,"Having become satisfied of his identity, he took a bird's eye view of his whereabouts."
17969,how had I deserved to be so cursed with the removal of my beloved in the hour of her making them?
17970,"I always called at the big houses to deliver the letters, and receive the postage."
17971,"Again groping toward the street, I opened a door off the hall and came upon an empty room with closely shuttered but sashless windows."
17972,I shuddered; I dared not die even though the cold grave held all I loved; although I might say with Job Where is now my hope?
17973,"During the lady's absence from home, a day or two afterwards, a ring is heard at the door of No. so and so, in such and such Avenue; a servant appears; the lady of the house is asked for and is declared to be out, at which astounding information, the visitor expresses the most poignant regret."
17974,"What the Red Glare Meant On the tempest racked night of November , , with a lantern which cast charnel shadows, I stood digging alone and idiotically in the grave of Jan Martense."
17975,While I gazed directly upward at it for its position was immediately over my own I fancied that I saw it in motion.
17976,I had been reserved for the latter.
17977,"This he poised suspiciously in his hand, then eyed it with an air of extreme surprise, and was evidently astonished at its weight."
17978,With deep and reverent awe I replaced the candelabrum in its former position.
17979,"In my delirium I had said much, but found that my words had been given scant attention."
17980,"""In some respects,"" he replied, ""your idea is not irrelevant."
17981,"It argued a capability of believing in phenomena beyond all normal notions; for if a dead man can transmit his visible or tangible image half across the world, or down the stretch of the centuries, how can it be absurd to suppose that deserted houses are full of queer sentient things, or that old graveyards teem with the terrible, unbodied intelligence of generations?"
17982,"One of these he maintained to be the head of Cicero; the other he imagined a composite one, being Demosthenes' from the top of the forehead to the mouth, and Lord Brougham's from the mouth to the chin."
17983,"In the electric light the colour seemed to be a kind of iridescent grey veined with green, and Gilman could see amidst his horror and bewilderment that one of the knobs ended in a jagged break corresponding to its former point of attachment to the dream railing."
17984,"More miserable than man ever was before, why did I not sink into forgetfulness and rest?"
17985,"She found a peasant and his wife, hard working, bent down by care and labour, distributing a scanty meal to five hungry babes."
17986,"Asellius; and the legatus of the whole region, Cn."
17987,"We object to it as a mere theory assumed in the first place, and to which circumstances are afterwards made to adapt themselves."
17988,"He must aim no more at the dear object of his ambition; throwing his arms aside, he must for present ends give up the ultimate object of his endeavours."
17989,"""The noble lady who sits opposite is Queen Pest, our Serene Consort."
17990,From this point the noise was quite deafening.
17991,"He was puzzled by one thing, a peak of solid matter, protruding above the ocean bed nearly four feet at its apex; about two feet thick, with flat sides and smooth upper surfaces which met at a very obtuse angle."
17992,"My statues and ivory heads were all sold, and I had no means to purchase new materials, or energy to fashion them even had I possessed them."
17993,But of the worm's metamorphosis we are palpably cognizant.
17994,What inexpressible madness seized me with that thought?
17995,"His voice seemed suffocated, and my first impulses, which had suggested to me the duty of obeying the dying request of my friend in destroying his enemy, were now suspended by a mixture of curiosity and compassion."
17996,"She heard that we were bound for Greece, that she would see her father, and now, for the first time, she prattled of him to her mother."
17997,"""Entitled,"" I repeated, ""to no earthly commiseration."
17998,"But to lose all to lose with life and love, glory also It shall not be ""I, and in a few brief years, all you, this panic struck army, and all the population of fair Greece, will no longer be."
17999,"On the day in which I visited the ship the fourteenth, Wyatt and party were also to visit it so the captain informed me and I waited on board an hour longer than I had designed, in hope of being presented to the bride, but then an apology came."
18000,My soul was in tumults; I traversed the streets with eager rapidity.
18001,"Very little concerning this skeleton has leaked out, but the workmen who found it whisper in shocked tones about the long, brownish hairs with which it was associated."
18002,"And ever since that hour, through dull dragging years of greyness and weariness, the philosopher has laboured and eaten and slept and done uncomplaining the suitable deeds of a citizen."
18003,"The balloon at first collapsed, then furiously expanded, then whirled round and round with horrible velocity, and finally, reeling and staggering like a drunken man, hurled me with great force over the rim of the car, and left me dangling, at a terrific height, with my head downward, and my face outwards, by a piece of slender cord about three feet in length, which hung accidentally through a crevice near the bottom of the wicker work, and in which, as I fell, my left foot became most providentially entangled."
18004,"As I strained to decipher this inscription my notice was distracted by the raucous tones of a cracked bell across the street, and I quickly turned to look out the window on my side of the coach."
18005,The city was in comparative repose.
18006,"It is clear that Kidd if Kidd indeed secreted this treasure, which I doubt not it is clear that he must have had assistance in the labor."
18007,"The misfortunes of Woodville were not of the hearts core like mine; his was a natural grief, not to destroy but to purify the heart and from which he might, when its shadow had passed from over him, shine forth brighter and happier than before."
18008,Oh that I had words to express the luxury of death that I might win you.
18009,"""Reperuse now that portion of this argument which has reference to the identification of the corpse by Beauvais."
18010,There is some defect in one of his feet.
18011,"I found what I had half expected, that where the shunned house now stood the Roulets had laid out their graveyard behind a one story and attic cottage, and that no record of any transfer of graves existed."
18012,Thank heaven these creatures employed no dogs for tracking though perhaps that would have been impossible amidst the omnipresent regional odour.
18013,I was glad to see the moonlight again when I emerged from that macabre tunnel.
18014,"The tail of that sinuous line of night marchers seemed very horrible, and as I saw them wriggling into a venerable tomb they seemed more horrible still."
18015,Maelzel now informs the company that he will disclose to their view the mechanism of the machine.
18016,"It rang on my ears long and heavily; the mountains re echoed it, and I felt as if all hell surrounded me with mockery and laughter."
18017,"Carter did not taste deeply of these modern freedoms; for their cheapness and squalor sickened a spirit loving beauty alone, while his reason rebelled at the flimsy logic with which their champions tried to gild brute impulse with a sacredness stripped from the idols they had discarded."
18018,"We, descendants from the one and the other, must be enemies also."
18019,"to be enamored of the Night for her own sake; and into this bizarrerie, as into all his others, I quietly fell; giving myself up to his wild whims with a perfect abandon."
18020,"He reeled, and would have crumpled to the ground had not two or three others seized and steadied him."
18021,He was glorious from his youth.
18022,"When they parted for the night, the Countess said, ""To morrow I trust your tone will be changed: be composed; I have agitated you; go to rest; and I will send you a medicine I always take when unduly restless it will give you a quiet night."""
18023,"Do I fear, that my heart palpitates?"
18024,"Either watching the crowd in the park, or occupied by painful reflection, we were all silent; Ryland stood by himself in an embrasure of the window; Adrian paced the hall, revolving some new and overpowering idea suddenly he stopped and said: ""I have long expected this; could we in reason expect that this island should be exempt from the universal visitation?"
18025,"He had the ordinary temperament of genius, and was a compound of misanthropy, sensibility, and enthusiasm."
18026,The night arrives and no sofa.
18027,Three of these are on each side of the figure.
18028,"They had, indeed, come themselves from the stars, and brought Their images with Them."
18029,"As I gained this respite I heard the battering at the two other doors abate, while a confused clatter came from the connecting door I had shielded with the bedstead."
18030,"You will not do this, I know you will not."
18031,"On the morning of April a fresh rat hole appeared in the room where Gilman was a guest, but Dombrowski tinned it up during the day."
18032,"Everything was silent except the leaves of the trees, which were gently agitated by the wind; the night was nearly dark, and the scene would have been solemn and affecting even to an uninterested observer."
18033,"Having carefully perused the column of ""houses to let,"" and the column of ""dogs lost,"" and then the two columns of ""wives and apprentices runaway,"" I attacked with great resolution the editorial matter, and, reading it from beginning to end without understanding a syllable, conceived the possibility of its being Chinese, and so re read it from the end to the beginning, but with no more satisfactory result."
18034,"I have looked upon all that the universe has to hold of horror, and even the skies of spring and the flowers of summer must ever afterward be poison to me."
18035,"Numerous invitations on the part of the neighborhood for a long time, however, periodically came in."
18036,"I am glad Woodville is not with me for perhaps he would grieve, and I desire to see smiles alone during the last scene of my life; when I last wrote to him I told him of my ill health but not of its mortal tendency, lest he should conceive it to be his duty to come to me for I fear lest the tears of friendship should destroy the blessed calm of my mind."
18037,"They were men and women, the sufferers, before they were Mahometans, and when they rise turbanless from the grave, in what except their good or evil actions will they be the better or worse than we?"
18038,"Yet such is human nature, that the excitement of mind was dear to me, and that the imagination, painter of tempest and earthquake, or, worse, the stormy and ruin fraught passions of man, softened my real sorrows and endless regrets, by clothing these fictitious ones in that ideality, which takes the mortal sting from pain."
18039,Wouldn't pull it no go.
18040,"Especially were we apprehensive concerning the mind and impulses of the creature, since in the space following death some of the more delicate cerebral cells might well have suffered deterioration."
18041,"Therefore instead of trying the door I knocked, feeling as I did so a trepidation I could scarcely explain."
18042,"He felt vaguely glad that all his relatives were distant and out of touch with him, for they could not have understood his mental life."
18043,"In the same way, individuals may escape ninety nine times, and receive the death blow at the hundredth; because bodies are sometimes in a state to reject the infection of malady, and at others, thirsty to imbibe it."
18044,In this position he sees the chess board through the bosom of the Turk which is of gauze.
18045,From the medical and court documents we learned all that could be gathered of his case.
18046,"About this period his inability to concentrate on his formal studies worried him considerably, his apprehensions about the mid year examinations being very acute."
18047,"I was bound by a solemn promise which I had not yet fulfilled and dared not break, or if I did, what manifold miseries might not impend over me and my devoted family Could I enter into a festival with this deadly weight yet hanging round my neck and bowing me to the ground?"
18048,"West was a materialist, believing in no soul and attributing all the working of consciousness to bodily phenomena; consequently he looked for no revelation of hideous secrets from gulfs and caverns beyond death's barrier."
18049,"I saw not then what I now clearly perceive, that the acquisitions of Ligeia were gigantic, were astounding; yet I was sufficiently aware of her infinite supremacy to resign myself, with a child like confidence, to her guidance through the chaotic world of metaphysical investigation at which I was most busily occupied during the earlier years of our marriage."
18050,"After a while he began to shudder, and turned away from the scene as if frightened; yet could give no explanation save that he was overcome with the vastness, darkness, remoteness, antiquity, and mystery of the oceanic abysses."
18051,"He began to feel closely akin to Sir Wade, and to seek relics of the latter's personal life in England as well as of his African exploits."
18052,"A rush of cool air greeted me; and though the day was one of the hottest of late June, I shivered as I crossed the threshold into a large apartment whose rich and tasteful decoration surprised me in this nest of squalor and seediness."
18053,"Sometimes I endeavoured to gain from Frankenstein the particulars of his creature's formation, but on this point he was impenetrable."
18054,"Psychologically my case is most interesting, and I regret that it cannot be observed scientifically by a competent German authority."
18055,"""Ay, all proceeds and changes: what wonder then, that love has journied on to its setting, and that the lord of my life has changed?"
18056,But all this vanished in a second.
18057,"My sister was three years younger than myself; I had nursed her as an infant, and when the difference of our sexes, by giving us various occupations, in a great measure divided us, yet she continued to be the object of my careful love."
18058,Thus the usual track of supposition was thoroughly broken up.
18059,This circumstance favored me greatly in the project I now determined to adopt.
18060,"I asked, ""the women and all?"" ""Assuredly,"" he said, ""we could not do at all without the women; they are the best lunatic nurses in the world; they have a way of their own, you know; their bright eyes have a marvellous effect; something like the fascination of the snake, you know."""
18061,In its size I had been greatly mistaken.
18062,V. Hesitating for many minutes.
18063,We all stood equal sharers of the last throes of time worn nature.
18064,Shakespeare's Sonnets.
18065,"It is truly a terrible thing, and unmistakably akin to the dream sculpture of young Wilcox."
18066,From somewhere within the works a dog barked in answer; either to the coyote or to something else.
18067,"And then then, when poring over forbidden pages, I felt a forbidden spirit enkindling within me would Morella place her cold hand upon my own, and rake up from the ashes of a dead philosophy some low, singular words, whose strange meaning burned themselves in upon my memory."
18068,"I had felt that some palpable although invisible object had passed lightly by my person; and I saw that there lay upon the golden carpet, in the very middle of the rich lustre thrown from the censer, a shadow a faint, indefinite shadow of angelic aspect such as might be fancied for the shadow of a shade."
18069,"We replaced and screwed down the lid, and, having secured the door of iron, made our way, with toil, into the scarcely less gloomy apartments of the upper portion of the house."
18070,"In such experiments with this patient I had never perfectly succeeded before, and assuredly I had little thought of succeeding now; but to my astonishment, his arm very readily, although feebly, followed every direction I assigned it with mine."
18071,"Uttering a few sounds with an air of melancholy, he took the pail from her head and bore it to the cottage himself."
18072,"An unwieldy ox, who had fed in an abandoned granary, suddenly lowed, and shewed his shapeless form in a narrow door way; every thing was desert; but nothing was in ruin."
18073,He became the darling hero of this rising people.
18074,"Let me see I will go and ask Pundit and be back in a minute.... Ah, here we have it Here is a book written nearly a thousand years ago and lately translated from the Inglitch which, by the way, appears to have been the rudiment of the Amriccan."
18075,"Sometimes my lawless mood would return, my love of peril, my resistance to authority; but this was in his absence; under the mild sway of his dear eyes, I was obedient and good as a boy of five years old, who does his mother's bidding."
18076,"God, ef anybody'd look'd ahead . . ."
18077,"Now that I had found them, my eagerness was again redoubled; for something in their arrangement dimly hinted that they might be only a few of many such, with dark, dumb counterparts wedged obscurely betwixt high blank walls and deserted rear tenements, or lurking lamplessly behind archways, unbetrayed by hordes of the foreign speaking or guarded by furtive and uncommunicative artists whose practices do not invite publicity or the light of day."
18078,"Here the vast bed of the waters, seamed and scarred into a thousand conflicting channels, burst suddenly into phrensied convulsion heaving, boiling, hissing gyrating in gigantic and innumerable vortices, and all whirling and plunging on to the eastward with a rapidity which water never elsewhere assumes except in precipitous descents."
18079,"The plot of Felix was quickly discovered, and De Lacey and Agatha were thrown into prison."
18080,"The gables are turned to the front, and there are cornices, as big as all the rest of the house, over the eaves and over the main doors."
18081,"I saw no cause for their unhappiness, but I was deeply affected by it."
18082,"This first sense of pain lay in a rigorous constriction of the breast and lungs, and an insufferable dryness of the skin."
18083,"I passed by a group of these terrorists, in a lane in the direct road to the hut."
18084,"The funeral, in short, was hastened, on account of the rapid advance of what was supposed to be decomposition."
18085,"These things should be left to the frigid and impersonal investigator, for they offer two equally tragic alternatives to the man of feeling and action; despair if he fail in his quest, and terrors unutterable and unimaginable if he succeed."
18086,"""Well, Jup,"" said I, ""what is the matter now? how is your master?"" ""Why, to speak de troof, massa, him not so berry well as mought be."" ""Not well I am truly sorry to hear it."
18087,"Let the cursed and hellish monster drink deep of agony; let him feel the despair that now torments me."""
18088,He saw that his electric flashlight was in working order.
18089,"Having obtained an oar at the water gate, we proceeded together to his residence, while he rapidly recovered his self possession, and spoke of our former slight acquaintance in terms of great apparent cordiality."
18090,"They do not wish the souls of their young men to leave the pleasant hearths and gambrel roofed taverns of old Kingsport, nor do they wish the laughter and song in that high rocky place to grow louder."
18091,He had taken somewhat after his unknown father.
18092,On this now leaped and twisted a more indescribable horde of human abnormality than any but a Sime or an Angarola could paint.
18093,We could not fear we did not.
18094,He related his history brief in happiness and woe and dwelt with passion on his and Elinor's mutual love.
18095,"Several of the Etonians had these characteristics; all were distinguished by a sense of honour, and spirit of enterprize; in some, as they verged towards manhood, this degenerated into presumption; but the younger ones, lads a little older than our own, were conspicuous for their gallant and sweet dispositions."
18096,"But the reverse is seen to be the case, and this reverse applies precisely to our supposition of a man in the interior."
18097,"What wonder then, that her feelings were wrought to this pitch I thus accounted to myself for her agitation; but this was not all, and the sequel revealed another excuse."
18098,"I pressed his shoulder to awaken his attention, but he did not alter his position."
18099,"No one had ever seen her closely, not even the servants; for her disposition had been violent and singular."
18100,"Proceeding southwardly, the explorer saw, at first, the same class of trees, but less and less lofty and Salvatorish in character; then he saw the gentler elm, succeeded by the sassafras and locust these again by the softer linden, red bud, catalpa, and maple these yet again by still more graceful and more modest varieties."
18101,"As soon as the health of Raymond was sufficiently re established, he prepared to join the Grecian camp, hear Kishan, a town of some importance, situated to the east of the Hebrus; in which Perdita and Clara were to remain until the event of the expected battle."
18102,I now looked at the nail.
18103,I could not see from my side of the hotel the southward route toward Arkham which I had determined to take.
18104,"I strove to rise, but my heavy lids closed, my limbs over wearied, claimed repose I rested my head on the stone, I yielded to the grateful sensation of utter forgetfulness; and in that scene of desolation, on that night of despair I slept."
18105,"The faculty of re solution is possibly much invigorated by mathematical study, and especially by that highest branch of it which, unjustly, and merely on account of its retrograde operations, has been called, as if par excellence, analysis."
18106,Manton was reflecting again.
18107,"Oh no I will become wise I will study my own heart and there discovering as I may the spring of the virtues I possess I will teach others how to look for them in their own souls I will find whence arrises this unquenshable love of beauty I possess that seems the ruling star of my life I will learn how I may direct it aright and by what loving I may become more like that beauty which I adore And when I have traced the steps of the godlike feeling which ennobles me makes me that which I esteem myself to be then I will teach others if I gain but one proselyte if I can teach but one other mind what is the beauty which they ought to love and what is the sympathy to which they ought to aspire what is the true end of their being which must be the true end of that of all men then shall I be satisfied think I have done enough Farewell doubts painful meditation of evil the great, ever inexplicable cause of all that we see I am content to be ignorant of all this happy that not resting my mind on any unstable theories I have come to the conclusion that of the great secret of the universe I can know nothing There is a veil before it my eyes are not piercing enough to see through it my arms not long enough to reach it to withdraw it I will study the end of my being oh thou universal love inspire me oh thou beauty which I see glowing around me lift me to a fit understanding of thee Such was the conclusion of my long wanderings I sought the end of my being I found it to be knowledge of itself Nor think this a confined study Not only did it lead me to search the mazes of the human soul but I found that there existed nought on earth which contained not a part of that universal beauty with which it was my aim object to become acquainted the motions of the stars of heaven the study of all that philosophers have unfolded of wondrous in nature became as it where sic the steps by which my soul rose to the full contemplation enjoyment of the beautiful Oh ye who have just escaped from the world ye know not what fountains of love will be opened in your hearts or what exquisite delight your minds will receive when the secrets of the world will be unfolded to you and ye shall become acquainted with the beauty of the universe Your souls now growing eager for the acquirement of knowledge will then rest in its possession disengaged from every particle of evil and knowing all things ye will as it were be mingled in the universe ye will become a part of that celestial beauty that you admire Diotima ceased and a profound silence ensued the youth with his cheeks flushed and his eyes burning with the fire communicated from hers still fixed them on her face which was lifted to heaven as in inspiration The lovely female bent hers to the ground after a deep sigh was the first to break the silence Oh divinest prophetess, said she how new to me how strange are your lessons If such be the end of our being how wayward a course did I pursue on earth Diotima you know not how torn affections misery incalculable misery withers up the soul."
18108,"Well, go on My wife, Mrs. Trotter, will give you the five dollars I left instructions with her to that effect."
18109,"From the tables we removed the tops."""
18110,"Yet one duty remained to me, the recollection of which finally triumphed over my selfish despair."
18111,"At length our tranquillity was disturbed, and the course of events, which for five years had flowed on in hushing tranquillity, was broken by breakers and obstacles, that woke us from our pleasant dream."
18112,"""Thus we see, at a glance, that what has been most triumphantly adduced in support of the idea that the articles had been 'for at least three or four weeks' in the thicket, is most absurdly null as regards any evidence of that fact."
18113,"Here was indeed a mystery which I felt it impossible to explain; but, even at that early moment, there seemed to glimmer, faintly, within the most remote and secret chambers of my intellect, a glow worm like conception of that truth which last night's adventure brought to so magnificent a demonstration."
18114,"When they proceeded Hoggishly, their ""facts"" were by no means always facts a matter of little consequence had it not been for assuming that they were facts and must be facts because they appeared to be such."
18115,At length Raymond suffered him to depart.
18116,"We got under way with a mere breath of wind, and for many days stood along the eastern coast of Java, without any other incident to beguile the monotony of our course than the occasional meeting with some of the small grabs of the Archipelago to which we were bound."
18117,I cannot see a well or a subway entrance without shuddering . . .
18118,"My privacy invaded, my actions censured, my friends insulted?"
18119,"""And how long, then, did the madmen reign?"" ""Oh, a very long time, indeed a month certainly how much longer I can't precisely say."
18120,"It was evident that, so far, death or what is usually termed death had been arrested by the mesmeric process."
18121,"Her power, which was linked to few of the enduring emotions of his heart, had greatly decayed."
18122,"The smile of triumph shone on his countenance; determined to pursue his object to the uttermost, his manner and expression seem ominous of the accomplishment of his wishes."
18123,"For many minutes of a dreamy and trembling abstraction, I busied myself in vain, unconnected conjecture."
18124,"George Bennett and William Tobey had left no trace, not even of a struggle."
18125,"At the end of the passable road they alighted, and for miles splashed on in silence through the terrible cypress woods where day never came."
18126,"In a word, why did he abandon four thousand francs in gold to encumber himself with a bundle of linen?"
18127,Shakspeare's Sonnets.
18128,"Such opinions need no comment, and I will make none."
18129,The fellow must be a relentless enemy of all mankind to take such glee in the torture of brain and flesh and the degradation of the mortal tenement.
18130,"The smoke of a battleship was on the northern horizon, but our distance and ability to submerge made us safe."
18131,"A single lightning bolt shot from the purple zenith to the altar stone, and a great tidal wave of viewless force and indescribable stench swept down from the hill to all the countryside."
18132,"Yet sorrow only slept to revive more fierce, but love never woke again its ghost, ever hovering over my father's grave, alone survived since his death all the world was to me a blank except where woe had stampt its burning words telling me to smile no more the living were not fit companions for me, and I was ever meditating by what means I might shake them all off, and never be heard of again."
18133,"All was now confusion and despair but an effort was made to lighten the ship by throwing overboard as much of her cargo as could be reached, and by cutting away the two masts that remained."
18134,And at this thought I paused.
18135,"His foreign birth, and he refused to throw off his allegiance to his native country, alone prevented him from filling the first offices in the state."
18136,Early in the morning the whole army was in motion.
18137,I have said that Ellison was remarkable in the continuous profusion of good gifts lavished upon him by Fortune.
18138,It was not until toward the close of the fourth year of our search that we found a locality with which Ellison professed himself satisfied.
18139,"Sheehan, now recovering from his astonishment, advanced and laid a heavy hand on the old waif's shoulder."
18140,"Elizabeth read my anguish in my countenance, and kindly taking my hand, said, ""My dearest friend, you must calm yourself."
18141,"If, for example, there should be a deposition of moisture upon the silk, and the machine begins to descend in consequence, there will be no necessity for discharging ballast to remedy the increase of weight, for it is remedied, or counteracted, in an exactly just proportion, by the deposit on the ground of just so much of the end of the rope as is necessary."
18142,Crossing the ocean in a balloon is not so difficult a feat after all.
18143,"How very wonderfully do we see verified every day, the profound observation of the Hindoo Aries Tottle as quoted by Pundit ""Thus must we say that, not once or twice, or a few times, but with almost infinite repetitions, the same opinions come round in a circle among men."""
18144,In vain I struggled to perfect to regain it.
18145,"Be it so; drag me away I return; confine me, imprison me, still I escape, and come here."
18146,"""Yes, there's a hotel in Innsmouth called the Gilman House but I don't believe it can amount to much."
18147,"An' she says he says they was a swishin', lappin' saound, more nor what the bendin' trees an' bushes could make, an' all on a suddent the trees along the rud begun ter git pushed one side, an' they was a awful stompin' an' splashin' in the mud."
18148,"Indeed, there is no other way of accounting for the variation in question."
18149,"I jumped up to examine the clock, and found that it had ceased running."
18150,They get a lot of fish and lobsters and do exporting by truck.
18151,"I did not sleep well that night, and wondered exactly when the end would come."
18152,We must endeavor to satisfy ourselves by personal inquiry.
18153,"The ring is clamorously identified, the reward is paid, and the finder nearly thrust out of doors."
18154,It was Rodriguez the Portuguese who climbed up the foot of the monolith and shouted of what he had found.
18155,"The soldiers answered his cheerful words with aghast and awe struck looks; instinctively they drew back, and Raymond rode in the front of the lines: ""By my sword I swear,"" he cried, ""that no ambush or stratagem endangers you."
18156,He had evidently sought refuge on the very ship which had been forced to destroy his own one more victim of the unjust war of aggression which the English pig dogs are waging upon the Fatherland.
18157,"We remained here a week, were not ill treated by the wreckers, and at length obtained a passage to New York."
18158,"Once a gap in the trees opened up to the right, so that he saw off across leagues of twilight meadow and spied the old Congregational steeple on Central Hill in Kingsport; pink with the last flush of day, the panes of the little round windows blazing with reflected fire."
18159,"""William Bird, tailor deposes that he was one of the party who entered the house."
18160,"Vidocq, for example, was a good guesser and a persevering man."
18161,"Moreover, they had stopped him from consulting the dubious old books on forbidden secrets that were kept under lock and key in a vault at the university library."
18162,"Found a startling diminution in the apparent diameter of the earth, and a considerable increase, now observable for the first time, in that of the moon itself, which wanted only a few days of being full."
18163,"Nex' day Obed an' thutty two others was in gaol, with everbody a wonderin' jest what was afoot an' jest what charge agin' 'em cud be got to holt."
18164,"As he remounted the splitting coffins he felt his weight very poignantly; especially when, upon reaching the topmost one, he heard that aggravated crackle which bespeaks the wholesale rending of wood."
18165,"I know not how to express or communicate the sense of concentrated, intense, though evanescent transport, that imparadized us in the present hour."
18166,"I often desired his entire absence; for I found that I was grown out of the ways of life and that by long seclusion, although I could support my accustomed grief, and drink the bitter daily draught with some degree of patience, yet I had become unfit for the slightest novelty of feeling."
18167,We at once saw the impossibility of removing so great a weight.
18168,I passed a night of unmingled wretchedness.
18169,"The pretty Miss Mansfield has already received the congratulatory visits on her approaching marriage with a young Englishman, John Melbourne, Esq."
18170,"""This is kind,"" she cried; ""this is noble, my own beloved O fear not disgrace or lowly fortune, while you have your Perdita; fear not sorrow, while our child lives and smiles."
18171,"Each word was drawn out with difficulty; real anguish painted his features; his eyes were now lifted in sudden horror, now fixed in dread upon the ground."
18172,"The heavy folds reached fully to the abutting roof, and I saw that the rings and catch would be likely to bear my weight."
18173,"With the mouth and chin of a deity singular, wild, full, liquid eyes, whose shadows varied from pure hazel to intense and brilliant jet and a profusion of curling, black hair, from which a forehead of unusual breadth gleamed forth at intervals all light and ivory his were features than which I have seen none more classically regular, except, perhaps, the marble ones of the Emperor Commodus."
18174,"I shall satiate my ardent curiosity with the sight of a part of the world never before visited, and may tread a land never before imprinted by the foot of man."
18175,"Among angels, my Oinos, it is seen to be simply true."
18176,"Such an one was near, hovering round this house."
18177,"The ancient house has always been there, and people say One dwells therein who talks with the morning mists that come up from the deep, and perhaps sees singular things oceanward at those times when the cliff's rim becomes the rim of all earth, and solemn buoys toll free in the white aether of faery."
18178,"""Adrian, I am about to return to Greece, to become again a soldier, perhaps a conqueror."
18179,At this juncture enters the Minister D .
18180,"Were it later for example, were it the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and forty five, we should be deprived of this extraordinary spectacle."
18181,He was soon borne away by the waves and lost in darkness and distance.
18182,"From the time that he had quitted London, on the fatal night of his defeat at the gaming table, the king had received no tidings concerning him; and when, after the lapse of years, he exerted himself to discover him, every trace was lost."
18183,"West of this door was a single window, looking toward the brook."
18184,"How miraculous did this appear The huts, the neater cottages, and stately houses engaged my admiration by turns."
18185,"Its details I shall never know; for my slumber, though troubled and dream infested, was continuous."
18186,"He was, like Boethius and nearly all the eminent men of his age, of the great Anician family, and traced his genealogy with much exactitude and self satisfaction to all the heroes of the republic."
18187,No more ice the man looked and ran away.
18188,The inhabitants of that street impressed me peculiarly.
18189,"He spoke in a dreamy, stilted manner which suggested pose and alienated sympathy; and my uncle shewed some sharpness in replying, for the conspicuous freshness of the tablet implied kinship with anything but archaeology."
18190,His eyes flashed with a fierce light.
18191,"Deep sorrow must have been the inmate of our bosoms; fraud must have lain in wait for us; the artful must have deceived us; sickening doubt and false hope must have chequered our days; hilarity and joy, that lap the soul in ecstasy, must at times have possessed us."
18192,It had ended horribly in a delirium of fear which we gradually came to attribute to our own overwrought nerves and West had never afterward been able to shake off a maddening sensation of being haunted and hunted.
18193,"Don't ask me, either, what lay behind that mole like scrambling Pickman was so keen to pass off as rats."
18194,"It must have been merely the association of any odd circumstance with the sinister nature of our location and mission, for surely the circumstance was not in itself frightful or unnatural."
18195,"I thought you knew me better."""
18196,"He took me into his confidence, gave me a permanent situation as Thomas Hawk of the ""Lollipop,"" and, as for the present, he could afford me no salary, allowed me to profit, at discretion, by his advice."
18197,See the whole town is topsy turvy.
18198,"Over the countryside and amidst the splendour of cities rove at will the happy folk, of whom all are gifted with unmarred grace and unalloyed happiness."
18199,"On the night of September , , I heard a knock at my chamber door."
18200,"The fire of madness died from his eyes, and in dull wonder he looked at his questioners and asked why he was bound."
18201,"""Yield up enough sacrifices an' savage knick knacks an' harbourage in the taown when they wanted it, an' they'd let well enough alone."
18202,"The main compartment itself in speaking of that portion of the box visible upon opening doors and , we shall always call it the main compartment is lined with dark cloth and contains no machinery whatever beyond two pieces of steel, quadrant shaped, and situated one in each of the rear top corners of the compartment."
18203,"And since spirit, in order to cause all the manifestations attributed to it, cannot be limited by any of the laws of matter; why is it extravagant to imagine psychically living dead things in shapes or absences of shapes which must for human spectators be utterly and appallingly ""unnamable""?"
18204,"There was neither submission, patience, nor self abandonment in her grief; she fought with it, struggled beneath it, and rendered every pang more sharp by resistance."
18205,"My tale had been called ""The Attic Window"", and appeared in the January, , issue of Whispers."
18206,"A flash of lightning illuminated the object, and discovered its shape plainly to me; its gigantic stature, and the deformity of its aspect more hideous than belongs to humanity, instantly informed me that it was the wretch, the filthy daemon, to whom I had given life."
18207,"""I dispute the availability, and thus the value, of that reason which is cultivated in any especial form other than the abstractly logical."
18208,"Even the sailors feel the power of his eloquence; when he speaks, they no longer despair; he rouses their energies, and while they hear his voice they believe these vast mountains of ice are mole hills which will vanish before the resolutions of man."
18209,"The theatres were kept open; every place of public resort was frequented; though he endeavoured so to modify them, as might best quiet the agitation of the spectators, and at the same time prevent a reaction of misery when the excitement was over."
18210,"There were even bold souls who proposed an offensive expedition down in the glen, though they did not venture to set an actual example to the still reluctant majority."
18211,In the quivering of a leaf in the hue of a blade of grass in the shape of a trefoil in the humming of a bee in the gleaming of a dew drop in the breathing of the wind in the faint odors that came from the forest there came a whole universe of suggestion a gay and motley train of rhapsodical and immethodical thought.
18212,The great clock of the Piazza had sounded the fifth hour of the Italian evening.
18213,"Of this party I was one, and did all I could to prevent the rash and fatal sally of the officer who fell, in the crowded alleys, by the poisoned arrow of a Bengalee."
18214,"I avoided him during the rest of the passage, by advice of the captain, who seemed to coincide with me altogether in my views of his insanity, but cautioned me to say nothing on this head to any person on board."
18215,"The great house was very still, for I had not gone up till after midnight."
18216,"I do not recall distinctly when it began, but it was months ago."
18217,"And travellers now within that valley, Through the red litten windows, see Vast forms that move fantastically To a discordant melody; While, like a rapid ghastly river, Through the pale door, A hideous throng rush out forever, And laugh but smile no more."
18218,"Love, and her child, Hope, which can bestow wealth on poverty, strength on the weak, and happiness on the sorrowing."
18219,"In each of the angles of the chamber stood on end a gigantic sarcophagus of black granite, from the tombs of the kings over against Luxor, with their aged lids full of immemorial sculpture."
18220,"He came each day to her abode of penury, and his presence transformed it to a temple redolent with sweets, radiant with heaven's own light; he partook of her delirium."
18221,By slow degrees however we were drawn to the real interest of the scene.
18222,"We are told that on one occasion, while a Madame B was at Madame Rogêt's house, M. Beauvais, who was going out, told her that a gendarme was expected there, and she, Madame B., must not say anything to the gendarme until he returned, but let the matter be for him...."
18223,"In the dank twilight I climbed the worn and aged stone stairs till I reached the level where they ceased, and thereafter clung perilously to small footholds leading upward."
18224,Can you not fancy the shout of scorn with which my words would be received by our progenitors were it possible for them to be now looking over my shoulder?
18225,"One of the phantasmagoric conceptions of my friend, partaking not so rigidly of the spirit of abstraction, may be shadowed forth, although feebly, in words."
18226,"We had drawn the God Eros from that wave, and now we felt that he had enkindled within us the fiery souls of our forefathers."
18227,"""As the sun became warmer and the light of day longer, the snow vanished, and I beheld the bare trees and the black earth."
18228,But these were not the Great Old Ones.
18229,"The greatest care had been taken to preserve a due medium between the neat and graceful on the one hand, and the pittoresque, in the true sense of the Italian term, on the other."
18230,"Now that very stone formed the centre of a vast space thrashed around by the mountainous horror, whilst upon its slightly concave surface was a thick and foetid deposit of the same tarry stickiness observed on the floor of the ruined Whateley farmhouse when the horror escaped."
18231,"Then he went back to Arkham, the terrible witch haunted old town of his forefathers in New England, and had experiences in the dark, amidst the hoary willows and tottering gambrel roofs, which made him seal forever certain pages in the diary of a wild minded ancestor."
18232,"""One day, having given my creditors the slip, and feeling more than usually dejected, I continued for a long time to wander about the most obscure streets without object whatever, until at length I chanced to stumble against the corner of a bookseller's stall."
18233,"But in the ultimate, unorganized life, the external world reaches the whole body, which is of a substance having affinity to brain, as I have said, with no other intervention than that of an infinitely rarer ether than even the luminiferous; and to this ether in unison with it the whole body vibrates, setting in motion the unparticled matter which permeates it."
18234,Three of these were filled with statues of gigantic proportions.
18235,"But supposing all these conjectures to be false, you cannot contest the inestimable benefit which I shall confer on all mankind, to the last generation, by discovering a passage near the pole to those countries, to reach which at present so many months are requisite; or by ascertaining the secret of the magnet, which, if at all possible, can only be effected by an undertaking such as mine."
18236,"Physicians found no adequate cause for the end, and laid it to heart trouble and a weakened constitution."
18237,"On the left the floor fell abruptly away, leaving a black triangular gulf out of which, after a second's dry rattling, there presently climbed the hateful little furry thing with the yellow fangs and bearded human face."
18238,And I have now mentioned all the provinces in which the common understanding of the poetic sentiment has declared it capable of expatiating.
18239,"But I did place upon his head and mine the two ends of my cosmic ""radio""; hoping against hope for a first and last message from the dream world in the brief time remaining."
18240,"The picture is blurred, but ineradicable."
18241,"There were two round, black spots near one extremity of the back, and a long one near the other."
18242,"The gentlemen said little about her; but the ladies, in a little while, pronounced her ""a good hearted thing, rather indifferent looking, totally uneducated, and decidedly vulgar."""
18243,"Besides, he was almost sure that nothing can be really ""unnamable""."
18244,"When reason returned, she would remonstrate and endeavour to inspire me with resignation."
18245,"Then, long after both he and Gilman had retired, the atrocious shrieking began."
18246,"It was the pregnancy of solemn admonition in the singular, low, hissing utterance; and, above all, it was the character, the tone, the key, of those few, simple, and familiar, yet whispered syllables, which came with a thousand thronging memories of bygone days, and struck upon my soul with the shock of a galvanic battery."
18247,"The balloon rose about half a mile from the earth, and with a favourable wind it hurried through the air, its feathered vans cleaving the unopposing atmosphere."
18248,"At every instant the vessel seemed imprisoned within an enchanted circle, having insuperable and impenetrable walls of foliage, a roof of ultramarine satin, and no floor the keel balancing itself with admirable nicety on that of a phantom bark which, by some accident having been turned upside down, floated in constant company with the substantial one, for the purpose of sustaining it."
18249,"Things went on that way fer years, an' Obed got enough o' that gold like stuff to make him start the refinery in Waite's old run daown fullin' mill."
18250,"The old man appeared enraptured and said some words which Agatha endeavoured to explain to Safie, and by which he appeared to wish to express that she bestowed on him the greatest delight by her music."
18251,"In fact, he had made up his mind for a voyage to the South Seas, when a night's reflection induced him to abandon the idea."
18252,"So day by day I become weaker, and life flickers in my wasting form, as a lamp about to loose it vivifying oil."
18253,"The order I had received, was to make an observation of the direction which a detachment of the enemy might have taken, from a northern tumulus; the whole Turkish army, followed by the Greek, had poured eastward; none but the dead remained in the direction of my side."
18254,"Round the skirts of the valley which is quite level, and paved throughout with flat tiles, extends a continuous row of sixty little houses."
18255,Some made it as short as three minutes some as long as five.
18256,"My father suggested that I should send it to the ""Gad Fly"" but there were two reasons which operated to prevent me from so doing."
18257,"He made few remarks, till, on observing through his glass the sequel of an order he had given, his face, clouded for awhile with doubt, became radiant."
18258,"""Very well, and very happy, only a little uneasy that they hear from you so seldom."
18259,"Now, my state room opened into the main cabin, or dining room, as did those of all the single men on board."
18260,"It is not, however, with L'Etoile that we have to do, but with the truth."
18261,"When I am addressed, her name is the sound I expect: in every communication, I imagine that she will form a part."
18262,Was it not Socrates who said that the statuary found his statue in the block of marble?
18263,"Against the moon vast clouds of feathery watchers rose and raced from sight, frantic at that which they had sought for prey."
18264,"It is indeed a tale so strange that I should fear you would not credit it were there not something in truth which, however wonderful, forces conviction."
18265,"""When she had finished, she gave the guitar to Agatha, who at first declined it."
18266,"There was no Adrian to superintend and direct, while whole flocks of the poor were struck and killed."
18267,"You can't imagine, even from what you have read and from what I've told you, the things I shall have to see and do."
18268,"Yes, he was stone, stone dead."
18269,"Without his hat he took on an aspect of extreme age which was scarcely visible before, and I wondered if this unperceived mark of singular longevity were not one of the sources of my original disquiet."
18270,"""This trait of kindness moved me sensibly."
18271,"Deprived of this respite, I should have sunk under my hardships."
18272,"It is, indeed evident, that with less of the instinctive philosophy which, now and then, stands so well in the stead of experience, Mr. Ellison would have found himself precipitated, by the very extraordinary successes of his life, into the common vortex of Unhappiness which yawns for those of preeminent endowments."
18273,"But my pleasures arose from the contemplation of nature alone, I had no companion: my warm affections finding no return from any other human heart were forced to run waste on inanimate objects."
18274,"Hey? Heh, heh, heh, heh. . . ."
18275,"""Dearest niece,"" said my father, ""dry your tears."
18276,"I did this at some little risk, and before closing the mouth of the chamber, by reaching under the car with one of the poles before mentioned to which a hook had been attached."
18277,"I was scarcely hid when a young girl came running towards the spot where I was concealed, laughing, as if she ran from someone in sport."
18278,"When dawn came Iranon looked about with dismay, for the domes of Oonai were not golden in the sun, but grey and dismal."
18279,"He was short of breath to say all in a word, he was short of breath."
18280,"The agony of suspense grew at length intolerable, and I cautiously moved forward, with my arms extended, and my eyes straining from their sockets, in the hope of catching some faint ray of light."
18281,"hull thing sort o' shaped like a hen's egg bigger'n anything, with dozens o' legs like hogsheads that haff shut up when they step . . ."
18282,The crowning horror came that very night.
18283,I saw how the fine form of man was degraded and wasted; I beheld the corruption of death succeed to the blooming cheek of life; I saw how the worm inherited the wonders of the eye and brain.
18284,"Within were three or four large stones, forming a kind of seat with a back and footstool."
18285,He had crossed the river with her in an open ferry boat.
18286,"The southeastward pull still held, and only with tremendous resolution could Gilman drag himself into the old house and up the rickety stairs."
18287,"No more could his galleys sail up the river Oukranos past the gilded spires of Thran, or his elephant caravans tramp through perfumed jungles in Kled, where forgotten palaces with veined ivory columns sleep lovely and unbroken under the moon."
18288,"Now, I suppose, you can find the left eye of the skull, or the place where the left eye has been."
18289,"I have, as you are aware, been much in India."
18290,"At length, having spoken one day, in tears, of the last sad change which must befall Humanity, she thenceforward dwelt only upon this one sorrowful theme, interweaving it into all our converse, as, in the songs of the bard of Schiraz, the same images are found occurring, again and again, in every impressive variation of phrase."
18291,"""Now, Jup,"" cried Legrand, evidently much excited, ""I want you to work your way out upon that limb as far as you can."
18292,"Yet, as he thus determined, fancy conjured up the miserable abode of the Greek girl."
18293,"Our own vessel was at length ceasing from her struggles, and sinking with her head to the sea."
18294,"My first endeavor was to divide the sentence into the natural division intended by the cryptographist."""
18295,What had been the study and desire of the wisest men since the creation of the world was now within my grasp.
18296,Was sure that the shrill voice was not that of either of the deceased.
18297,"""At first I was too much confused to observe anything accurately."
18298,"Behold me then safely ensconced in my private boudoir, a fearful instance of the ill consequences attending upon irascibility alive, with the qualifications of the dead dead, with the propensities of the living an anomaly on the face of the earth being very calm, yet breathless."
18299,I always attributed my failure at these points to the disordered state of his health.
18300,But it is mere idleness to say that I had not lived before that the soul has no previous existence.
18301,"Of course, then, it is the interest of the proprietor to represent it as a pure machine."
18302,"""But was this species of acquiescence all?"" ""By no means."
18303,"Its designs, however, were far from modern in atmosphere and suggestion; for although the vagaries of cubism and futurism are many and wild, they do not often reproduce that cryptic regularity which lurks in prehistoric writing."
18304,Of her family I have surely heard her speak.
18305,An acetylene gas outfit gave the light necessary for work.
18306,No care no hope no effort.
18307,"He was somewhat surprised; he would see, he said, what could be done; but it required time; and Raymond had ordered me to return by noon."
18308,"I wept as I listened to him; and after we had taken an affectionate farewell, I followed him far with my eyes until they saw the last of my earthly comforter."
18309,"About eight o'clock at night, having become seriously alarmed at his protracted absence, we were about setting out in search of him, when he unexpectedly made his appearance, in health no worse than usual, and in rather more than ordinary spirits."
18310,Were he not Alexander he would be Diogenes.
18311,"""You looked among D 's papers, of course, and into the books of the library?"" ""Certainly; we opened every package and parcel; we not only opened every book, but we turned over every leaf in each volume, not contenting ourselves with a mere shake, according to the fashion of some of our police officers."
18312,"He wished to give his invention a trial, I suppose, and so he persuaded the rest of the patients to join him in a conspiracy for the overthrow of the reigning powers."""
18313,"""The words induced me to turn towards myself."
18314,"With these I spent most of my time, and never was so happy as when feeding and caressing them."
18315,"My thoughts were sad and solemn, yet not of unmingled pain."
18316,"Let us live for each other and for happiness; let us seek peace in our dear home, near the inland murmur of streams, and the gracious waving of trees, the beauteous vesture of earth, and sublime pageantry of the skies."
18317,"No, we will have a Protector of our own."
18318,"The crew, many of whom had never seen the sea before, felt indeed as if heaven and earth came ruining together, as the vessel dipped her bows in the waves, or rose high upon them."
18319,"Desrochers, the fellow under Gilman's room, had spoken of nocturnal footsteps both shod and unshod, and of the violet light he saw one night when he had stolen fearfully up to peer through Gilman's keyhole."
18320,"This intelligence brought us back from the prospect of paradise, held out after the lapse of an hundred thousand years, to the pain and misery at present existent upon earth."
18321,"But within me is a pledge of that affection ah, how little which thou didst feel for me, Morella."
18322,"The fashions of the world, its exigencies, educations and pursuits, are winds to drive our wills, like clouds all one way; but let a thunderstorm arise in the shape of love, hate, or ambition, and the rack goes backward, stemming the opposing air in triumph."""
18323,We returned together to the palace.
18324,"I have no right to play with his feelings, to accept his proffered love, and then sting him with neglect."""
18325,In that coffin and in that vault they have promised me I shall be buried.
18326,"I doubted the care, the fidelity of my dearest friends."
18327,"He was first struck by the space of time that had elapsed, since madness, rather than any reasonable impulse, had regulated his actions."
18328,"The younger part gathered round me to ask my advice; and those who had friends in London were anxious beyond the rest, to ascertain the present extent of disease in the metropolis."
18329,"If hemmed, the matter is nearly out of the question."
18330,"For such follies, even in childhood, I had imbibed a taste and now they came back to me as if in the dotage of grief."
18331,"This done, let us compare these communications, both as regards style and MS., with those sent to the morning paper, at a previous period, and insisting so vehemently upon the guilt of Mennais."
18332,Yet he did not remove it.
18333,"It was alive now, and early villagers courtesied as the horsemen clattered down the street and turned off into the lane that ends in the abyss of dream."
18334,"The little river which turned sharply in its course, and was thus immediately lost to sight, seemed to have no exit from its prison, but to be absorbed by the deep green foliage of the trees to the east while in the opposite quarter so it appeared to me as I lay at length and glanced upward there poured down noiselessly and continuously into the valley, a rich golden and crimson waterfall from the sunset fountains of the sky."
18335,The sailor's face flushed up as if he were struggling with suffocation.
18336,There was a night when winds from unknown spaces whirled us irresistibly into limitless vacua beyond all thought and entity.
18337,"The uprising of the star of day was hailed by triumphant strains, while the birds, heard by snatches, filled up the intervals of the music."
18338,"This thing, for very obvious reasons, I found it quite impossible to do."
18339,"It would be needless to narrate those disastrous occurrences, for which a parallel might be found in any slighter visitation of our gigantic calamity."
18340,Now and then we could see the lightning through the cracks in the wall; the afternoon was so incredibly dark that each flash was extremely vivid.
18341,"I foresee that the plan which you mark out in your letter will not endure long; but you are mistress of yourself, and it is my sincere wish to contribute as far as you will permit me to your happiness."""
18342,"In the sense I intend, it is, in fact, a mobile without motive, a motive not motivirt."
18343,"We will only suggest that, although the top of the box is apparently a board of about three inches in thickness, the spectator may satisfy himself by stooping and looking up at it when the main compartment is open, that it is in reality very thin."
18344,"As I opened the window I noticed that it was flanked by heavy velour draperies suspended from a pole by brass rings, and also that there was a large projecting catch for the shutters on the exterior."
18345,Upon one thing I was absolutely resolved.
18346,"""The 'Gazette,'"" he replied, ""has not entered, I fear, into the unusual horror of the thing."
18347,"At length they began to interfere with the inhabitants, and strong in their concentrated numbers, ejected the natives from their dwellings, and robbed them of their winter store."
18348,It was now evident that its nucleus would first reach us.
18349,"He sprang from the cabin window as he said this, upon the ice raft which lay close to the vessel."
18350,"The moon's light flickers, as earth's gods dance against it; I shall see the dancing forms of the gods that leap and howl in the moonlight. . . ."
18351,"Am very willing to pay a reward for the finding of the animal that is to say, any thing in reason."""
18352,"Hitherto she had steadily borne up against the pressure of her malady, and had not betaken herself finally to bed; but, on the closing in of the evening of my arrival at the house, she succumbed as her brother told me at night with inexpressible agitation to the prostrating power of the destroyer; and I learned that the glimpse I had obtained of her person would thus probably be the last I should obtain that the lady, at least while living, would be seen by me no more."
18353,"Isolated among strange influences, Lavinia was fond of wild and grandiose day dreams and singular occupations; nor was her leisure much taken up by household cares in a home from which all standards of order and cleanliness had long since disappeared."
18354,"Yes, that paper was the reason I dropped Pickman; Richard Upton Pickman, the greatest artist I have ever known and the foulest being that ever leaped the bounds of life into the pits of myth and madness."
18355,The poor little thing's fever encreased towards night.
18356,"""And now a new object took possession of my soul."
18357,What he wanted were bodies from which vitality had only just departed; bodies with every cell intact and capable of receiving again the impulse toward that mode of motion called life.
18358,I have lost my hopes of utility and glory; I have lost my friend.
18359,"While musing upon the singularity of my fate, I unwittingly daubed with a tar brush the edges of a neatly folded studding sail which lay near me on a barrel."
18360,"I wish you all health, and a little more courtesy."
18361,"A moment later I felt less sure that the deeper sounds were voices, since the apparent hoarse barkings and loose syllabled croakings bore so little resemblance to recognised human speech."
18362,Any risk would have been preferred to a return to that accursed shore.
18363,"It is the usual Sunday resort of blackguards from the city, who cross the river in boats."
18364,"Dxn't crxw, anxther time, befxre yxu're xut xf the wxxds Dxes yxur mxther knxw yxu're xut?"
18365,"All attempts at analyzing the unknown substance have, so far, failed, but that it will ultimately be analyzed, is not to be doubted."
18366,"Diana, my poodle sweetest of creatures She had a quantity of hair over her one eye, and a blue ribband tied fashionably around her neck."
18367,"How the devil sir, did you get into this place?"
18368,It had been her care which provided me a companion in Clerval and yet a man is blind to a thousand minute circumstances which call forth a woman's sedulous attention.
18369,"Merciful gods of earth, I am falling into the sky"" And as Atal shut his eyes and stopped his ears and tried to jump downward against the frightful pull from unknown heights, there resounded on Hatheg Kla that terrible peal of thunder which awaked the good cotters of the plains and the honest burgesses of Hatheg and Nir and Ulthar, and caused them to behold through the clouds that strange eclipse of the moon that no book ever predicted."
18370,"I was, therefore, quite anxious to make her acquaintance."
18371,"All the townsfolk were frightened, and had begged the presence of a cohort from Calagurris."
18372,"At first I made an endeavor to re compose the patient; but, failing in this through total abeyance of the will, I retraced my steps and as earnestly struggled to awaken him."
18373,"A strange headline item had struck at him from the crumpled pages, and a nameless titan claw had seemed to reach down through sixteen years."
18374,"At first I took it for a rumbling in my ears such as a man sometimes experiences when getting very drunk but, upon second thought, I considered the sound as more nearly resembling that which proceeds from an empty barrel beaten with a big stick; and, in fact, this I should have concluded it to be, but for the articulation of the syllables and words."
18375,Chapter When I had attained the age of seventeen my parents resolved that I should become a student at the university of Ingolstadt.
18376,But the Duc's heart is fainting within him.
18377,"When we quitted Macedonia, the fertile but low plains of Thrace afforded fewer beauties; yet our journey continued to be interesting."
18378,"One step One little, little step Upon one such little step in the great staircase of human life how vast a sum of human happiness or misery depends I thought of myself, then of Pompey, and then of the mysterious and inexplicable destiny which surrounded us."
18379,All that I possessed of the luxuries of life came from him.
18380,"I must, I saw, trust to such makeshift barriers to shield me till I could get out the window and on the roof of the Paine Street block."
18381,"As I had never visited a place of the kind, I thought the opportunity too good to be lost; and so proposed to my travelling companion a gentleman with whom I had made casual acquaintance a few days before that we should turn aside, for an hour or so, and look through the establishment."
18382,"He looked in every corner for brownish drops or stains, but did not find any."
18383,"The person of whom I speak, seemed born for the purpose of foreshadowing the wild doctrines of Turgot, Price, Priestley, and Condorcet of exemplifying, by individual instance, what has been deemed the mere chimera of the perfectionists."
18384,"""Proceed,"" said I. ""Or not,"" said Dupin."
18385,And finally he had spoken of the living things in such a manner that he was taken to the madhouse.
18386,"I heard of the division of property, of immense wealth and squalid poverty, of rank, descent, and noble blood."
18387,"I paused, examining and analysing all the minutiae of causation, as exemplified in the change from life to death, and death to life, until from the midst of this darkness a sudden light broke in upon me a light so brilliant and wondrous, yet so simple, that while I became dizzy with the immensity of the prospect which it illustrated, I was surprised that among so many men of genius who had directed their inquiries towards the same science, that I alone should be reserved to discover so astonishing a secret."
18388,"It was one thing to chase the nameless entity, but quite another to find it."
18389,"I tried to conceal this as much as possible, that I might not debar him from the pleasures natural to one who was entering on a new scene of life, undisturbed by any care or bitter recollection."
18390,I expressed these feelings in my answer.
18391,"Among them the Greek army was encamped, and their squadrons moved to and fro now in regular march, now in swift career."
18392,Nothing is so painful to the human mind as a great and sudden change.
18393,"Gilman believed strange things about Keziah, and had felt a queer thrill on learning that her dwelling was still standing after more than years."
18394,It is merely the idea of what would be our sensations during the sweeping precipitancy of a fall from such a height.
18395,"""Indeed I have always understood that the majority of lunatics were of the gentler sex."" ""It is generally so, but not always."
18396,"When he again spoke, his voice had resumed all that rich melody and strength which I had noticed upon our original introduction."
18397,"He seemed to know what was coming the monstrous burst of Walpurgis rhythm in whose cosmic timbre would be concentrated all the primal, ultimate space time seethings which lie behind the massed spheres of matter and sometimes break forth in measured reverberations that penetrate faintly to every layer of entity and give hideous significance throughout the worlds to certain dreaded periods."
18398,This also was refused.
18399,"It was a vague, insistent impulse to fly away from his present situation, but held not a hint of the specific direction in which he wished to fly."
18400,"In this respect I did not differ from him materially: I was skilful in the Italian vintages myself, and bought largely whenever I could."
18401,"Fortunately, there is but one mode of reasoning upon the point, and that mode must lead us to a definite decision."
18402,"There was much lore too in the sayings which were said by the Sybils; and holy, holy things were heard of old by the dim leaves that trembled around Dodona but, as Allah liveth, that fable which the Demon told me as he sat by my side in the shadow of the tomb, I hold to be the most wonderful of all And as the Demon made an end of his story, he fell back within the cavity of the tomb and laughed."
18403,"The father of their charge was one of those Italians nursed in the memory of the antique glory of Italy one among the schiavi ognor frementi, who exerted himself to obtain the liberty of his country."
18404,"Of how the organic entities moved, he could tell no more than of how he moved himself."
18405,"Watching my opportunity, when I thought the audience were fully engaged with the opera, I at length caught the eyes of Madame Lalande, and, upon the instant, made a slight but unmistakable bow."
18406,"He remained to combat the fiend his side unguarded, his toils unshared infection might even reach him, and he die unattended and alone."
18407,"In the morning, on her return, my servant found me almost lifeless, while possessed by a high fever I was lying on the floor of my room."
18408,"Under other circumstances than those which invested him, it is not impossible that he would have become a painter."
18409,"As before, some minutes elapsed ere a reply was made; and during the interval the dying man seemed to be collecting his energies to speak."
18410,"The favoured countries of the south will throw off the iron yoke of servitude; poverty will quit us, and with that, sickness."
18411,"His brow was white as the marble of Pentelicus, and of a height and breadth almost godlike."
18412,them as had reel hands. . . .
18413,"You are, beyond doubt, uninformed of the true character of the person who has to night won at ecarte a large sum of money from Lord Glendinning."
18414,"Then the old man made a signal to the half seen flute player in the darkness, which player thereupon changed its feeble drone to a scarce louder drone in another key; precipitating as it did so a horror unthinkable and unexpected."
18415,"We kept the poor devils as busy as we could, tinkering at the machinery even when we knew it was useless."
18416,"""While I was overcome by these feelings, I left the spot where I had committed the murder, and seeking a more secluded hiding place, I entered a barn which had appeared to me to be empty."
18417,"First I must seek Adrian, and restore him to her."
18418,"These, for a time, were unsuccessful."
18419,"One of my first acts for the recovery even of my own composure, was to bid farewell to the sea."
18420,"Women whose delicate feet had seldom touched the earth in their luxury, had fled in fright and horror from their homes, till, losing themselves in the squalid streets of the metropolis, they had died on the threshold of poverty."
18421,"Arose in good health and spirits, and was astonished at the singular change which had taken place in the appearance of the sea."
18422,Raymond strode angrily up and down the room.
18423,"Even Central Hill was a dwarf from this height, and he could just make out the ancient graveyard by the Congregational Hospital, beneath which rumour said some terrible caves or burrows lurked."
18424,"That place was very old, and the ceiling high shelves full of rotting volumes reached back endlessly through windowless inner rooms and alcoves."
18425,"""Ketched in the rain, be ye?"" he greeted."
18426,"In the narrow limits of that bower, it would have been scarcely possible that the petticoat and scarf should have retained a position upon the stones, when subjected to the brushing to and fro of many struggling persons."
18427,Nothing could be more rigorously simple than the furniture of the parlor.
18428,"Assist me, Spirit of Apicius A golden cage bore the little winged wanderer, enamored, melting, indolent, to the Chaussée D'Antin, from its home in far Peru."
18429,"My acquaintance with him was casual altogether; and I am scarcely warranted in saying that I know him at all; but to have seen and conversed with a man of so prodigious a notoriety as he has attained, or will attain in a few days, is not a small matter, as times go."
18430,"After the clock had struck three the moon shone in my eyes, but I turned over without rising to pull down the shade."
18431,"It likewise happens frequently, that whales come too near the stream, and are overpowered by its violence; and then it is impossible to describe their howlings and bellowings in their fruitless struggles to disengage themselves."
18432,"A quick step was now heard upon the staircase, and a loud knock at the door rapidly succeeded."
18433,When Randolph Carter was thirty he lost the key of the gate of dreams.
18434,"My first idea, now, was mere surprise at the really remarkable similarity of outline at the singular coincidence involved in the fact, that unknown to me, there should have been a skull upon the other side of the parchment, immediately beneath my figure of the scarabæus, and that this skull, not only in outline, but in size, should so closely resemble my drawing."
18435,This speech troubled me.
18436,"Unfortunately no carvings could be found, and the small size of the expedition prevented operations toward clearing the one visible passageway that seemed to lead down into the system of vaults which Sir Wade had mentioned."
18437,"So, at least I thought: but I had not counted upon the extent of the dungeon, or upon my own weakness."
18438,"And what damnable expressiveness Pickman sometimes gave the sightless faces of this charnel booty Occasionally the things were shewn leaping through open windows at night, or squatting on the chests of sleepers, worrying at their throats."
18439,For want of a better word we might term it spirit.
18440,There is scarcely an insane asylum in France which cannot supply a human tea pot.
18441,"Into the granite city of Teloth wandered the youth, vine crowned, his yellow hair glistening with myrrh and his purple robe torn with briers of the mountain Sidrak that lies across the antique bridge of stone."
18442,"My friends, for Verney, I feel that you are my friend, do not endeavour to shake my resolve."
18443,"Never, Idris related, did the angry lady deign to recur to gentleness and persuasion; if she had, the task of resistance would have been exquisitely painful."
18444,"three, four quite right Say to Mrs. Trotter that you met me, and be sure now and do not loiter on the way."""
18445,We shall make our bed of dried leaves; the sun will shine on us as on man and will ripen our food.
18446,Warren would never tell me just what was in that book.
18447,"Often at sunset, I have walked with her, in the sober, enshadowed forest paths, and listened with joyful sympathy."
18448,"The ceiling, of gloomy looking oak, was excessively lofty, vaulted, and elaborately fretted with the wildest and most grotesque specimens of a semi Gothic, semi Druidical device."
18449,"Her understanding was clear and comprehensive, her imagination vivid; she was sincere, generous, and reasonable."
18450,"What is all this boring, and probing, and sounding, and scrutinizing with the microscope and dividing the surface of the building into registered square inches what is it all but an exaggeration of the application of the one principle or set of principles of search, which are based upon the one set of notions regarding human ingenuity, to which the Prefect, in the long routine of his duty, has been accustomed?"
18451,"He at length succeeded in regaining his former station on the rim, but had hardly done so when his head dropped upon his breast, and he fell dead within the car."
18452,"The lenticular shaped phenomenon, also called the zodiacal light, was a matter worthy of attention."
18453,"Other stars anon shall rise To the axis of the skies; Stars that soothe and stars that bless With a sweet forgetfulness: Only when my round is o'er Shall the past disturb thy door."""
18454,"It was a black cat a very large one fully as large as Pluto, and closely resembling him in every respect but one."
18455,But perhaps this was all madness.
18456,"On page , we have the following: ""What a prodigious influence must our thirteen times larger globe have exercised upon this satellite when an embryo in the womb of time, the passive subject of chemical affinity"" This is very fine; but it should be observed that no astronomer would have made such remark, especially to any journal of Science; for the earth, in the sense intended, is not only thirteen, but forty nine times larger than the moon."
18457,"When they had gone, I spoke freely with M. Valdemar on the subject of his approaching dissolution, as well as, more particularly, of the experiment proposed."
18458,"The ""flight"" is made on an eagle's back, from Hungry Hill, a lofty mountain at the end of Bantry Bay."
18459,"Our joys were dearer because we saw their end; they were keener because we felt, to its fullest extent, their value; they were purer because their essence was sympathy as a meteor is brighter than a star, did the felicity of this winter contain in itself the extracted delights of a long, long life."
18460,"""It was at this juncture that Mr. Monck Mason whose voyage from Dover to Weilburg in the balloon, ""Nassau,"" occasioned so much excitement in , conceived the idea of employing the principle of the Archimedean screw for the purpose of propulsion through the air rightly attributing the failure of Mr. Henson's scheme, and of Sir George Cayley's, to the interruption of surface in the independent vanes."
18461,"From the bright epoch which I now record, my actions my works are the property of mankind."
18462,But success SHALL crown my endeavours.
18463,"I associated with others friendless like myself; I formed them into a band, I was their chief and captain."
18464,"Among the gnarled trees in the front yard of his aged and neglected place he maintains a strange collection of large stones, oddly grouped and painted so that they resemble the idols in some obscure Eastern temple."
18465,"As I stared at the uncannily lighted door and windows, I became subject to the most extravagant visions visions so extravagant that I cannot even relate them."
18466,"The skull turned my stomach, but the other was worse those ankles cut neatly off to fit Matt Fenner's cast aside coffin"" Nyarlathotep . . . the crawling chaos . . ."
18467,He begged me not to be impatient to moderate my transports to read soothing books to drink nothing stronger than Hock and to bring the consolations of philosophy to my aid.
18468,The idee was to drop it daown with the right kind o' prayers an' sech.
18469,"When the pine box was fully uncovered West scrambled down and removed the lid, dragging out and propping up the contents."
18470,He had gone in the carriage to the nearest town where he took a post chaise and horses with orders for the London road.
18471,"I was hardly more devoted to my Idris than to her brother, and she loved him as her teacher, her friend, the benefactor who had secured to her the fulfilment of her dearest wishes."
18472,"When he entered the city, past the bronze gates and over the onyx pavements, the merchants and camel drivers greeted him as if he had never been away; and it was the same at the turquoise temple of Nath Horthath, where the orchid wreathed priests told him that there is no time in Ooth Nargai, but only perpetual youth."
18473,"You recollect also, that I became quite vexed at you for insisting that my drawing resembled a death's head."
18474,"A swirling vapour hid everything but the immediate sloping terrain from sight, and he shrank from the thought of the sounds that might surge out of that vapour."
18475,"And then I wept; yes, warm tears once more struggled into my eyes soothing yet bitter; and after I had wept much and called with unavailing anguish, with outstretched arms, for my cruel father; after my weak frame was exhausted by all variety of plaint I sank once more into reverie, and once more reflected on how I might find that which I most desired; dear to me if aught were dear, a death like solitude."
18476,I could only conceive this singular behavior to arise from a consummate self conceit assuming the vulgar airs of patronage and protection.
18477,"They fled they knew not whither; and the citizens were filled with greater dread, at the convulsion which ""shook lions into civil streets;"" birds, strong winged eagles, suddenly blinded, fell in the market places, while owls and bats shewed themselves welcoming the early night."
18478,"Therein walk only daemons and mad things that are no longer men, and the streets are white with the unburied bones of those who have looked upon the eidolon Lathi, that reigns over the city."""
18479,"Better to decay in absolute delirium, than to be the victim of the methodical unreason of ill bestowed love."
18480,"At the close of a day's march over high mountains and through snowy vallies, we may come upon health, and committing our loved ones to its charge, replant the uprooted tree of humanity, and send to late posterity the tale of the ante pestilential race, the heroes and sages of the lost state of things."
18481,"When at last the clanking subsided, I resumed the trowel, and finished without interruption the fifth, the sixth, and the seventh tier."
18482,"Incomprehensible men Wrapped up in meditations of a kind which I cannot divine, they pass me by unnoticed."
18483,"I was obliged to leave London, and Adrian undertook to watch over him; the task was soon fulfilled; age, grief, and inclement weather, all united to hush his sorrows, and bring repose to his heart, whose beats were agony."
18484,"Unseen things not of earth or at least not of tri dimensional earth rushed foetid and horrible through New England's glens, and brooded obscenely on the mountain tops."
18485,"The stout, shrewd faced agent, whose speech shewed him to be no local man, seemed sympathetic toward my efforts at economy, and made a suggestion that none of my other informants had offered."
18486,I looked on the regal towers of Windsor.
18487,"All this Johansen did not suspect, but God knows he soon saw enough I suppose that only a single mountain top, the hideous monolith crowned citadel whereon great Cthulhu was buried, actually emerged from the waters."
18488,"But such naive reports could mean very little, and Gilman let the cheap metal crucifix hang idly from a knob on his host's dresser."
18489,"John's, I bade the knocker enter, but was answered only by a shrill laugh."
18490,Here again he made an anxious examination of the paper; turning it in all directions.
18491,"What may not the forces, never before united, of liberty and peace achieve in this dwelling of man?"" ""Dreaming, for ever dreaming, Windsor"" said Ryland, the old adversary of Raymond, and candidate for the Protectorate at the ensuing election."
18492,"Reports of the coming cohort must have reached the hills, and even the lack of a final decision could not make the rumour less alarming yet there were the sinister drums as of yore, as if the celebrants had some peculiar reason to be indifferent whether or not the forces of the Roman People marched against them."
18493,His ultimate design was to sell it.
18494,"It was captured by the private soldier Read 'em and Weep Hopkins, who not long after traded it to Rest in Jehovah Stubbs for a quid of new Virginia weed."
18495,"""Nay,"" said Perdita, ""that task shall be mine."
18496,Yet it is obviously from such prominent discrepancies or incongruities as this that deductions are to be made if made at all which shall lead us to the truth.
18497,"The prospect of such an occupation made every other circumstance of existence pass before me like a dream, and that thought only had to me the reality of life."
18498,"These, though in numbers they might form a minority, were the stable element whose constancy might be relied on, and whose cooperation would most firmly bind the province to the Imperium of the Senate and the Roman People."
18499,"Day after day passed marked only by my complaints and my tears; often I lifted my soul in vain prayer for a softer descent from joy to woe, or if that were denied me that I might be allowed to die, and fade for ever under the cruel blast that swept over me, for what should I do here, Like a decaying flower, still withering Under his bitter words, whose kindly heat Should give my poor heart life?C Sometimes I said to myself, this is an enchantment, and I must strive against it."
18500,"Their number would have inspired them with confidence; if, indeed confidence is ever wanting in the breast of the arrant blackguard; and of arrant blackguards alone are the supposed gangs ever constituted."
18501,"Le Diligence Thursday, June ."
18502,"""Divine soul"" said Fraser."
18503,Such is the will of fate Such the decree of the High Ruler from whom there is no appeal: to whom I submit.
18504,"As if beckoned by those who had gone before, I half floated between the titanic snowdrifts, quivering and afraid, into the sightless vortex of the unimaginable."
18505,Finally I summoned up courage and propped the small object up on the table against a book then turned the rays of the peculiar violet light upon it.
18506,"He had not forgotten the criticism aroused when Hannah Bixby's relatives, wishing to transport her body to the cemetery in the city whither they had moved, found the casket of Judge Capwell beneath her headstone."
18507,"If infection depended upon the air, the air was subject to infection."
18508,"Its fair lakes reflect a blue and gentle sky, and when troubled by the winds, their tumult is but as the play of a lively infant when compared to the roarings of the giant ocean."
18509,"It is, for instance, not often that a young physician leaving college is obliged to conceal the principles which guide his selection of a home and office, yet that was the case with Herbert West."
18510,"He is wronged, betrayed, imprisoned save him Verney, you must do this; seek him out in whatever part of the island he is immured; find him, rescue him from his persecutors, restore him to himself, to me on the wide earth I have none to love but only him"" Her earnest appeal, so sweetly and passionately expressed, filled me with wonder and sympathy; and, when she added, with thrilling voice and look, ""Do you consent to undertake this enterprize?"""
18511,I tried how steadily I could maintain the ray upon the eve.
18512,"I was, I own, often tempted to recur to the lawless feats of my boy hood, and knock down the almost tame pheasants that perched upon the trees, and bent their bright eyes on me."
18513,"""As I live,"" I replied."
18514,"And I was going back into the morass, when the moon shone with a fuller red, and I turned and looked again upon the rock, and upon the characters; and the characters were DESOLATION."
18515,"Then, overcome by fatigue, I lay down among some straw and fell asleep."
18516,"For me at least in the circumstances then surrounding me there arose out of the pure abstractions which the hypochondriac contrived to throw upon his canvass, an intensity of intolerable awe, no shadow of which felt I ever yet in the contemplation of the certainly glowing yet too concrete reveries of Fuseli."
18517,"The man paused, and another of the crowd spoke."
18518,Women were screaming.
18519,"Apparently this acidulous matron was right; for about a.m. the whole house was aroused by cries coming from West's room, where when they broke down the door they found the two of us unconscious on the blood stained carpet, beaten, scratched, and mauled, and with the broken remnants of West's bottles and instruments around us."
18520,"The visionary Perdita beheld in all this only a new gloss upon an old reading, and her own was sufficiently inexhaustible to content her."
18521,"Idris now for the first time for many years saw her mother, anxious to assure herself that the childishness of old age did not mingle with unforgotten pride, to make this high born dame still so inveterate against me."
18522,"He seemed, in fine, to have picked up an odd gift of prophecy; and reacted unusually to things which, though at the time without meaning, were later found to justify the singular impressions."
18523,"The complaining ædile's own mother Helvia was a pure Roman, the daughter of M. Helvius Cinna, who had come over with Scipio's army."
18524,"But it would not be so; young and blooming as they were, they would die, and from the hopes of maturity, from the proud name of attained manhood, they were cut off for ever."
18525,"And it might have been for this reason only, that, when I again uplifted my eyes to the house itself, from its image in the pool, there grew in my mind a strange fancy a fancy so ridiculous, indeed, that I but mention it to show the vivid force of the sensations which oppressed me."
18526,He always causes that.
18527,"This reflection unwrinkled my brow, and I could feel and I wept to feel it a half melancholy smile draw from my lips their expression of suffering: I dared indulge better hopes for my future life; years must pass but they would speed lightly away winged by hope, or if they passed heavily, still they would pass and I had not lost my father for ever."
18528,"Yet, for some minutes longer I refrained and stood still."
18529,"And knowing that to this sunken place all the dead had come, I trembled and did not wish again to speak with the lotos faces."
18530,"I breathed hard, but not so much from the sight itself as from the possibilities my imagination terrifiedly conjured up."
18531,"When they left their older peaks they took with them all signs of themselves; save once, it is said, when they left a carven image on the face of the mountain which they called Ngranek."
18532,"As his hammer blows began to fall, the horse outside whinnied in a tone which may have been encouraging and may have been mocking."
18533,"Excavated back into the hillside, the structure is visible only at the entrance."
18534,"My implements were all safe, and, fortunately, I had lost neither ballast nor provisions."
18535,"He was forthwith conveyed to the nearest hospital, and there pronounced to be still living, although in an asphytic condition."
18536,"Yet I would not suffer my thoughts for any length of time to dwell upon these latter speculations, rightly judging the real and palpable dangers of the voyage sufficient for my undivided attention."
18537,"""Sir,"" I reply'd, ""you are mistaken."
18538,"Subsequently he seemed to be satisfied, and crossing to a chair by the table wrote a brief note, handed it to me, and returned to the table, where he began to write rapidly and incessantly."
18539,"""My best girl,"" he had said, ""relieves me from these phantasies."
18540,"On the list were several of my acquaintances, and among other names, I was rejoiced to see that of Mr. Cornelius Wyatt, a young artist, for whom I entertained feelings of warm friendship."
18541,"Not a single little o was in the little o hole; and, glancing fearfully at the capital O partition, he found that to his extreme terror, in a precisely similar predicament."
18542,"We kept on in this manner throughout the day, with no material incident, and, as the shades of night closed around us, we made a rough estimate of the distance traversed."
18543,"The English spirit awoke to its full activity, and, as it had ever done, set itself to resist the evil, and to stand in the breach which diseased nature had suffered chaos and death to make in the bounds and banks which had hitherto kept them out."
18544,"In the unsteady glance of his eye, in his extreme desire to learn the opinions of all, in the feebleness of his hand writing, these qualities might be obscurely traced, but they were not generally known."
18545,Le Commerciel wishes to intimate that Marie was seized by some gang of low ruffians not far from her mother's door.
18546,My plan was exceedingly simple.
18547,"I was mad with excess of passionate devotion; but pride, tameless as fire, invested my nature, and prevented me from betraying myself by word or look."
18548,"I would have removed my position to one nearer her own, but the crowded state of the theatre rendered this impossible; and the stern decrees of Fashion had, of late, imperatively prohibited the use of the opera glass in a case such as this, even had I been so fortunate as to have one with me but I had not and was thus in despair."
18549,"After the recognition of the corpse, it was not, as usual, taken to the Morgue, this formality being superfluous, but hastily interred not far from the spot at which it was brought ashore."
18550,"Fairest of all is the palace of the great monarch Dorieb, whom some say to be a demigod and others a god."
18551,"Their origin was to be looked for in the progressive removal of the customary atmospheric pressure upon the surface of the body, and consequent distention of the superficial blood vessels not in any positive disorganization of the animal system, as in the case of difficulty in breathing, where the atmospheric density is chemically insufficient for the due renovation of blood in a ventricle of the heart."
18552,"""They didn't git him,"" he muttered in his heavy bass voice."
18553,"The Americans permitted a few to join their band, and presently the recruits outnumbered the strangers nor did they join with them, nor imitate the admirable order which, preserved by the Trans Atlantic chiefs, rendered them at once secure and formidable."
18554,"On this day, Wednesday, the twenty fifth of June, a Monsieur Beauvais, who, with a friend, had been making inquiries for Marie near the Barrière du Roule, on the shore of the Seine which is opposite the Rue Pavée St. Andrée, was informed that a corpse had just been towed ashore by some fishermen, who had found it floating in the river."
18555,To him a pas de papillon has been an abstract conception.
18556,"We could not tear ourselves away from each other nor persuade ourselves to say the word ""Farewell"" It was said, and we retired under the pretence of seeking repose, each fancying that the other was deceived; but when at morning's dawn I descended to the carriage which was to convey me away, they were all there my father again to bless me, Clerval to press my hand once more, my Elizabeth to renew her entreaties that I would write often and to bestow the last feminine attentions on her playmate and friend."
18557,"A truce to philosophy Life is before me, and I rush into possession."
18558,Good augury should this festival be of the happiness of future years.
18559,"But there was no voice throughout the vast illimitable desert, and the characters upon the rock were SILENCE."
18560,"The magician then arises from his seat, bows his head, describes circles with his wand, and consulting the book as If in deep thought, he lifts it towards his face."
18561,"It was a repulsive task that we undertook in the black small hours, even though we lacked at that time the special horror of graveyards which later experiences brought to us."
18562,"""Moissart and Voissart"" I repeated, thoughtfully, as she cut one of her pigeon wings, and ""Croissart and Froissart"" as she completed another ""Moissart and Voissart and Croissart and Napoleon Bonaparte Froissart why, you ineffable old serpent, that's me that's me d'ye hear?"
18563,"B. The poisonous sangsue of Charlottesville may always be distinguished from the medicinal leech by its blackness, and especially by its writhing or vermicular motions, which very nearly resemble those of a snake."""
18564,if indeed such angels there be.
18565,The impetuous fury of the entering gust nearly lifted us from our feet.
18566,"Over hidden wires strange messages travelled, and much was said of still stranger messages yet to travel; but most of this was not guessed till afterward,when the Western Land was safe from the peril."
18567,"It had caved in like an egg shell, and amongst the ruins nothing living or dead could be discovered."
18568,"I explained to them, in a few words, what I designed, and as they opposed no objection, saying that the patient was already in the death agony, I proceeded without hesitation exchanging, however, the lateral passes for downward ones, and directing my gaze entirely into the right eye of the sufferer."
18569,"I watched him long his heavy half closed lids, his burning cheeks and restless twining of his small fingers the fever was violent, the torpor complete enough, without the greater fear of pestilence, to awaken alarm."
18570,"The girl met him at the door, helped to relieve him of his burden, and taking some of the fuel into the cottage, placed it on the fire; then she and the youth went apart into a nook of the cottage, and he showed her a large loaf and a piece of cheese."
18571,"The facts here re stated by Le Soleil, are very far indeed from removing my own doubts upon this subject, and we will examine them more particularly hereafter in connexion with another division of the theme."
18572,I will not dwell on the last changes that I feel in the final decay of nature.
18573,"This latter point, however, was fully disproved."
18574,"Upon retiring, he had had an unprecedented dream of great Cyclopean cities of titan blocks and sky flung monoliths, all dripping with green ooze and sinister with latent horror."
18575,"Such madness it was which drove Klenze to his death, bareheaded and unprotected in the ocean; but I am a Prussian and a man of sense, and will use to the last what little will I have."
18576,"Indeed, old Sir Wade had possessed an intellectual zeal amounting almost to a mania; his bizarre conjectures on a prehistoric white Congolese civilisation earning him much ridicule when his book, Observations on the Several Parts of Africa, was published."
18577,"When I suggested other physicians, the sufferer would fly into as much of a rage as he seemed to dare to entertain."
18578,The pieces of her frock torn out by the bushes were about three inches wide and six inches long.
18579,"Then came the devastating stroke of lightning which shook the whole mountain, lit the darkest crypts of the hoary grove, and splintered the patriarch of the twisted trees."
18580,"By the by, he came away from Down East in a great hurry."
18581,"I began to realise how some of poor Klenze's moods had arisen, for as the temple drew me more and more, I feared its aqueous abysses with a blind and mounting terror."
18582,"""Gawd almighty, the grass an' bushes is a movin' It's a goin' up slow like creepin' up ter the top this minute, heaven only knows what fur"" Then the germ of panic seemed to spread among the seekers."
18583,It was the beating of the old man's heart.
18584,"It had been my design, originally, to wait for the physicians; but I was induced to proceed, first, by the urgent entreaties of M. Valdemar, and secondly, by my conviction that I had not a moment to lose, as he was evidently sinking fast."
18585,"No, it was not there, but there was the big silver key he had found in a box somewhere."
18586,"The sea was fifty miles off, yet it was towards it that he fled."
18587,Darkness fell upon a stricken countryside too passive to organise for real defence.
18588,"The chances are ten to one, that he who had once eloped with Marie, would again propose an elopement, rather than that she to whom proposals of elopement had been made by one individual, should have them made to her by another."
18589,"I was to be his consoler, his companion in after years."
18590,"Custom had dinned into his ears a superstitious reverence for that which tangibly and physically exists, and had made him secretly ashamed to dwell in visions."
18591,"On the afternoon of June , as reported by wireless to the U , bound for Kiel, we torpedoed the British freighter Victory, New York to Liverpool, in N. Latitude , W. Longitude ; permitting the crew to leave in boats in order to obtain a good cinema view for the admiralty records."
18592,"Scattered and unconnected as they were, I have been obliged to add links, and model the work into a consistent form."
18593,"The urge to walk was gradually changing to an urge to leap mystically into space, and suddenly he realised just where the source of the pull lay."
18594,I love you very tenderly.
18595,"That this 'bandage,' only attainable with trouble and delay, and but imperfectly answering its purpose that this bandage was employed at all, demonstrates that the necessity for its employment sprang from circumstances arising at a period when the handkerchief was no longer attainable that is to say, arising, as we have imagined, after quitting the thicket, if the thicket it was, and on the road between the thicket and the river."
18596,"Cries of horror filled the place every one endeavoured to effect his escape in a few minutes the market place was cleared the corpse lay on the ground; and the maniac, subdued and exhausted, sat beside it, leaning his gaunt cheek upon his thin hand."
18597,"The old spinning woman had gone with the throng, and the old man remained only because I had refused when he motioned me to seize an animal and ride like the rest."
18598,"Frankenstein discovered that I made notes concerning his history; he asked to see them and then himself corrected and augmented them in many places, but principally in giving the life and spirit to the conversations he held with his enemy."
18599,"Love of the Greek people, appetite for glory, and hatred of the barbarian government under which he had suffered even to the approach of death, stimulated him."
18600,"I resolved, let what would befall, to see and converse with her the following day."
18601,"My own German will no longer controls my acts, and volition is henceforward possible only in minor matters."
18602,"Yet this small interval was to save us: the sea was to rise a wall of adamant without, disease and misery within, a shelter from evil, a nook of the garden of paradise a particle of celestial soil, which no evil could invade truly we were wise in our generation, to imagine all these things But we are awake now."
18603,"Thus situated, my only resource was to drive before the wind."
18604,"About midnight I returned to the palace and sought Raymond; he was alone, and apparently composed; such composure, at least, was his as is inspired by a resolve to adhere to a certain line of conduct."
18605,Arthur Jermyn went out on the moor and burned himself after seeing the boxed object which had come from Africa.
18606,"As the names Trever, Lawrence, and Appleton fell on the air, the loafers seemed to sense something unusual."
18607,Poor Clerval What must have been his feelings?
18608,"And the soldiers at Jaren laughed at me and drave me out, so that I wandered to many other cities."
18609,"""He has been twice waylaid, as if by footpads, and his person rigorously searched under my own inspection."""
18610,"As it was, I at length grew restive in the extreme under his distasteful supervision, and daily resented more and more openly what I considered his intolerable arrogance."
18611,I dragged my watch from its fob.
18612,"Corona Borealis, which my friend had appeared to dread, and whose scintillant semicircle of stars must even now be glowing unseen through the measureless abysses of aether."
18613,"How irksome were these three days to me All sleep and appetite fled from me; I could only read and re read his letter, and in the solitude of the woods imagine the moment of our meeting."
18614,"I took thee, just now, from a rose wood coffin inlaid with ivory."
18615,"As the first violence of Musides' grief gave place to resignation, he laboured with diligence upon his figure of Tyché."
18616,"""Saturday, April the th."
18617,"We did not want for occupation; but my eager disposition was now turned to the field of intellectual exertion only; and hard study I found to be an excellent medicine to allay a fever of spirit with which in indolence, I should doubtless have been assailed."
18618,"A young practising physician, too, having applied a pocket mirror to my mouth, and found me without breath, the assertion of my persecutor was pronounced a true bill; and the whole party expressed a determination to endure tamely no such impositions for the future, and to proceed no farther with any such carcasses for the present."
18619,"I knew in that second all that had been; I remembered beyond the frightful castle and the trees, and recognised the altered edifice in which I now stood; I recognised, most terrible of all, the unholy abomination that stood leering before me as I withdrew my sullied fingers from its own."
18620,"That the passages quoted above, with the other similar ones referred to, gave Von Kempelen the hint, I do not in the slightest degree question; but I repeat, it yet remains to be seen whether this momentous discovery itself momentous under any circumstances will be of service or disservice to mankind at large."
18621,"Let him live with me in the interchange of kindness, and instead of injury I would bestow every benefit upon him with tears of gratitude at his acceptance."
18622,"But this is no answer at all, by his own showing, for has he not just admitted as a truism that ""ability or inability to conceive is in no case to be received as a criterion of axiomatic truth."""
18623,"This chamber he lined with tall, firm shelving; along which he began gradually to arrange, in apparently careful order, all the rotting ancient books and parts of books which during his own day had been heaped promiscuously in odd corners of the various rooms."
18624,"My name and origin need not be related to posterity; in fact, I fancy it is better that they should not be, for when a man suddenly migrates to the States or the Colonies, he leaves his past behind him."
18625,"I extended my ride towards Salt Hill, on every side impeded by the snow."
18626,Half the chants of the Sabbat were patterned on this faintly overheard pulsing which no earthly ear could endure in its unveiled spatial fulness.
18627,"""Be assured that earth is not, nor ever can be heaven, while the seeds of hell are natives of her soil."
18628,"We reached London, methought, all too soon; and yet I could not regret our speedy arrival, when I witnessed the extasy with which my beloved girl found herself in her brother's arms, safe from every evil, under his unblamed protection."
18629,Hard fate yet there was some alleviation to the first overwhelming paroxysm of my sorrow.
18630,"Walking softly over to the Washington Street side I perceived several open doorways, and chose the nearest as my route out."
18631,"Mr. Hoadley disappeared soon after delivering this sermon; but the text, printed in Springfield, is still extant."
18632,"""Other men,"" I observed, ""may be better musicians."""
18633,"But, of course, as I had no wish to put an end to the conference, I assented to a proposition so very obvious, and one, too, of whose truth I had all along been sufficiently aware."
18634,"I would not marry a reigning sovereign, were I not sure that her heart was free."
18635,"My brother was at the stern, holding on to a small empty water cask which had been securely lashed under the coop of the counter, and was the only thing on deck that had not been swept overboard when the gale first took us."
18636,"In a night such as is this to me, a man lives lives a whole century of ordinary life nor would I forego this rapturous delight for that of a whole century of ordinary existence."
18637,"AFTER a long interval, I am again impelled by the restless spirit within me to continue my narration; but I must alter the mode which I have hitherto adopted."
18638,She devoted herself to the study of her son's disposition.
18639,"And, indeed the case was just the same with all the other clocks and watches in the borough."
18640,"I won't say that all this is wholly true in body, but 'tis sufficient true to furnish a very pretty spectacle now and then."
18641,"Through my terror ran curious reminiscences of Paradise Lost, and of Satan's hideous climb through the unfashioned realms of darkness."
18642,But these figures partook of the true character of the arabesque only when regarded from a single point of view.
18643,"""Bless my soul blood and thunder, and all that prodigies of valor heard of him of course?"
18644,"And in the twilight, as the stars came out one by one and the moon cast on the marsh a radiance like that which a child sees quivering on the floor as he is rocked to sleep at evening, there walked into the lethal quicksands a very old man in tattered purple, crowned with withered vine leaves and gazing ahead as if upon the golden domes of a fair city where dreams are understood."
18645,"""Hem"" said he, ""good boy go on"" ""I am sure, my dearest uncle you confounded old rascal, that you have no design really, seriously, to oppose my union with Kate."
18646,"At right angles to these buildings, and from the rear of the main one not exactly in the middle extended a third compartment, very small being, in general, one third less than the western wing."
18647,"""She arrived in safety at a town about twenty leagues from the cottage of De Lacey, when her attendant fell dangerously ill."
18648,It now required long and excessive labor to condense within the chamber sufficient atmospheric air for the sustenance of life.
18649,"In this state of mind, wishing to live, yet wearied with life, the treatise at the stall of the bookseller opened a resource to my imagination."
18650,"I knew that a thousand fearful accidents might occur, the slightest of which would disclose a tale to thrill all connected with me with horror."
18651,"I knew that it was now midnight, and I was well aware, that since the setting of the sun, Berenice had been interred."
18652,"He must meet the Black Man, and go with them all to the throne of Azathoth at the centre of ultimate Chaos."
18653,"For, in respect to the latter branch of the supposition, it should be considered that the most trifling variation in the facts of the two cases might give rise to the most important miscalculations, by diverting thoroughly the two courses of events; very much as, in arithmetic, an error which, in its own individuality, may be inappreciable, produces, at length, by dint of multiplication at all points of the process, a result enormously at variance with truth."
18654,"Birch decided that he would begin the next day with little old Matthew Fenner, whose grave was also near by; but actually postponed the matter for three days, not getting to work till Good Friday, the th."
18655,Nor has he yet had any difficulty in obtaining tenants.
18656,"Presently he took from his coat pocket a wallet, placed the paper carefully in it, and deposited both in a writing desk, which he locked."
18657,"He was, West nervously said, a congenial stranger whom we had met at some downtown bar of uncertain location."
18658,"I was exceedingly surprised on receiving so rude an answer from a stranger, and I was also disconcerted on perceiving the frowning and angry countenances of his companions."
18659,"Let them raise a mound above my lifeless body, which may stand even when the dome of St. Sophia has fallen."
18660,"For as the voice which has come has brought fresh mists from the sea and from the north fresh lights, so do they say that still other voices will bring more mists and more lights, till perhaps the olden gods whose existence they hint only in whispers for fear the Congregational parson shall hear may come out of the deep and from unknown Kadath in the cold waste and make their dwelling on that evilly appropriate crag so close to the gentle hills and valleys of quiet simple fisherfolk."
18661,"It was an ordinary Parisian house, with a gateway, on one side of which was a glazed watch box, with a sliding panel in the window, indicating a loge de concierge."
18662,"I was placed in a remote part of the house, and only saw my aunt at stated hours."
18663,"Fear has its grisly claws upon him, and a sound will make him start with staring eyes and sweat beaded forehead."
18664,"The fellow opened his mouth from ear to ear, and shut his two eyes as if he were endeavoring to crack nuts between the lids."
18665,"I walked rapidly, softly, and close to the ruined houses."
18666,"At eight P. M., the clouds broke away to windward, and we had the advantage of a full moon a piece of good fortune which served wonderfully to cheer our drooping spirits."
18667,"He appeared given up to contemplation, averse to excitement, a lowly student, a man of visions but afford him worthy theme, and Like to the lark at break of day arising, From sullen earth, sings hymns at heaven's gate."
18668,"Encompassed by the massy walls of this venerable academy, I passed, yet not in tedium or disgust, the years of the third lustrum of my life."
18669,"I tore a part of the hem from the robe and placed the fragment at full length, and at right angles to the wall."
18670,"Thus, the balloon can neither ascend or descend, except within very narrow limits, and its resources, either in gas or ballast, remain comparatively unimpaired."
18671,"If I erred, he was not scholar enough to correct me; for he seemed childishly pleased at my English version."
18672,At this point the first excited speaker interrupted.
18673,"He had partially unveiled the face of Nature, but her immortal lineaments were still a wonder and a mystery."
18674,"""Then you are not of the brotherhood."""
18675,"Your temper is made unequal by suffering, and the tenor of your mind is, I fear, sometimes shaken by unworthy causes; but let your confidence in my sympathy and love be deeper far, and incapable of being reached by these agitations that come and go, and if they touch not your affections leave you uninjured."""
18676,"It was our design to sit up together till very late, and then watch singly till dawn in two hour stretches, myself first and then my companion; the inactive member resting on the cot."
18677,"Perdita, who then resided with Evadne, saw the torture that Adrian endured."
18678,It must: but a true philosophy has long taught that the source of all motion is thought and the source of all thought is OINOS.
18679,Object there was none.
18680,"I do not wish to take any unfair advantage, and I beg therefore that you will take some days to consider of your determination.' ""'It is utterly useless,' replied Felix; 'we can never again inhabit your cottage."
18681,"The man who had been Joe Slater, the Catskill decadent, was now gazing at me with a pair of luminous, expanded eyes whose blue seemed subtly to have deepened."
18682,"Wildly excited with wine, the unexpected interruption rather delighted than surprised me."
18683,"To leave the country of our fathers, made holy by their graves We could not feel even as a voluntary exile of old, who might for pleasure or convenience forsake his native soil; though thousands of miles might divide him, England was still a part of him, as he of her."
18684,All this had undoubtedly formed the basis of the legend known by old Maria Robbins.
18685,"""No; he quitted the house before four this morning."""
18686,"He did not leave me for many hours; not until he had improved the spark that he had kindled, and with an angelic hand fostered the return of somthing that seemed like joy."
18687,This would naturally have been the case.
18688,"This done, he opens the doors No. and No. , the folding doors and displays the interior of the main compartment."
18689,All the movements of the arm are at right angles.
18690,"All in my heart was shadowy yet calm, untill my ideas became confused and at length died away in sleep."
18691,"Once in a while it seemed as though we detected a skulking form in the woods nearby, and after a half hour's climb the steepness and narrowness of the way made the advance of so great a body of men over , all told exceedingly cumbrous and difficult."
18692,"Get bald, too, very young."
18693,"His jaws, which had been newly shaved, were tightly tied up by a bandage of muslin; and his arms being fastened in a similar way at the wrists, I prevented him from helping himself too freely to the liquors upon the table; a precaution rendered necessary, in the opinion of Legs, by the peculiarly sottish and wine bibbing cast of his visage."
18694,After that we lived in growing horror and fascination.
18695,There was no one in the corridor.
18696,"From the very nature of such fabrics, a thorn or nail becoming entangled in them, tears them rectangularly divides them into two longitudinal rents, at right angles with each other, and meeting at an apex where the thorn enters but it is scarcely possible to conceive the piece 'torn off.'"
18697,West clashed disagreeably with Dr. Halsey near the end of our last undergraduate term in a wordy dispute that did less credit to him than to the kindly dean in point of courtesy.
18698,"He was vastly jealous of Dr. Johnson, tho' none the less liking and respecting him."
18699,"""My friends,"" I said, ""our risk is common; our precautions and exertions shall be common also."
18700,"""Rest"" she cried, ""repose you rave, Lionel If you delay we are lost; come, I pray you, unless you would cast me off for ever."""
18701,"The tender attachment that he bore me, and the love and veneration with which I returned it cast a charm over every moment."
18702,"""Readily; I have solved others of an abstruseness ten thousand times greater."
18703,"Our fear of the police was absurdly great, though we had timed our trip to avoid the solitary patrolman of that section."
18704,"Among the other transcendant attributes of Mozart's music, it possesses more than any other that of appearing to come from the heart; you enter into the passions expressed by him, and are transported with grief, joy, anger, or confusion, as he, our soul's master, chooses to inspire."
18705,At this shadow I gazed wonderingly for many minutes.
18706,"At length his eyes unclosed faintly, yet with a look of returning life; he became pale and weak; but the rigidity of his features was softened by approaching convalescence."
18707,This was superstition.
18708,"Plague shall not find us a ready prey; we will dispute every inch of ground; and, by methodical and inflexible laws, pile invincible barriers to the progress of our foe."
18709,"In fact, I no longer dared trust myself out of the immediate presence of those who were aware of my proneness to catalepsy, lest, falling into one of my usual fits, I should be buried before my real condition could be ascertained."
18710,"Here Mr. Crab concluded, and the tears stood in his eyes."
18711,"Where were the souls of the haughty family of the bride, when, through thirst of gold, they permitted to pass the threshold of an apartment so bedecked, a maiden and a daughter so beloved?"
18712,"All around him stretched the bleak emptiness of salt marshes, while the narrow road ahead led to Innsmouth that ancient, half deserted town which Arkham people were so curiously unwilling to visit."
18713,They give a sarten number o' young folks to the sea things twict every year May Eve an' Hallowe'en reg'lar as cud be.
18714,Here he turned impatiently toward the stage.
18715,"His flesh, though dry and firm, was of the quality of ice; and I almost shrank away from his pulling."
18716,Not that this indulgence was devoid of accompanying grief.
18717,"West had still another source of worry, for he had been called in the afternoon to a case which ended very threateningly."
18718,"The faint rose again blushed on his cheek; his brow and lips lost the ashy paleness of threatened dissolution; such was the dear reward of my unremitting attention and bounteous heaven added overflowing recompence, when it gave me also the thanks and smiles of Idris."
18719,"She had been employed in arranging for their departure; she had promised Raymond during this decisive evening, to take advantage of our absence, to go one stage of the journey, and he, after his defeat was ascertained, would slip away from us, and join her."
18720,Yet why do I say this?
18721,"But having at length accomplished it, I soon began to reap the benefit of my invention."
18722,"He remembered that he had promised Perdita to be present this very evening the th of October, anniversary of his election as Protector at a festival given in his honour."
18723,"As for Bob, he would have considered it heretical to employ any other character, in a case of this kind, than the x to which he had been accustomed."
18724,Do I not distinguish that heavy and horrible beating of her heart?
18725,"It may seem strange that in spite of the continual anxiety occasioned me by the rivalry of Wilson, and his intolerable spirit of contradiction, I could not bring myself to hate him altogether."
18726,"We had receded from the crowd; and ascending the steps of the terrace, sought the Castle."
18727,"They they alone were present to the mental eye, and they, in their sole individuality, became the essence of my mental life."
18728,"So thick were the vapours that the way was hard, and though Atal followed on at last, he could scarce see the grey shape of Barzai on the dim slope above in the clouded moonlight."
18729,I had indeed made a narrow escape.
18730,"No one spoke to me, but I could hear the creaking of signs in the wind outside, and the whir of the wheel as the bonneted old woman continued her silent spinning, spinning."
18731,The contents of these papers were important.
18732,"Then came out of the earth the black spirits of earth, mouldy and shadowy, and full of dim rumours picked up in caverns beneath forgotten sea bottoms."
18733,"Most fearfully, fearfully this is indeed no dream."
18734,"However, my rapping evoked no response, so after repeating the summons I tried the rusty latch and found the door unfastened."
18735,"Now swift and splintering blows assailed the sickly panels, and I saw the gleam of a tomahawk as it cleft the rending wood."
18736,"My fate has been governed by necessity, a hideous necessity."
18737,"The next evening therefore, though the autumnal change had brought on cold and rain, Adrian and Idris entered my cottage."
18738,"A similar objection applies to the whole of the concluding pages, where, by way of introduction to some discoveries in Saturn, the philosophical correspondent enters into a minute schoolboy account of that planet this to the ""Edinburgh journal of Science"" But there is one point, in particular, which should have betrayed the fiction."
18739,"The box behind which the Automaton is placed, is precisely three feet six inches long, two feet four inches deep, and two feet six inches high."
18740,The shutting of the gates regularly at ten o'clock and the impossibility of remaining on the lake after that hour had rendered our residence within the walls of Geneva very irksome to me.
18741,But it was so silent.
18742,"At last beginning my attempt, I lunged again and again at the thin panelling with my left shoulder, heedless of shock or pain."
18743,She had not returned my letter unopened.
18744,"Her fear had been too deep, too absorbing, too entire, to be changed to security."
18745,"And far out at sea, despite a high tide, I glimpsed a long, black line scarcely rising above the water yet carrying a suggestion of odd latent malignancy."
18746,"Once my uncle thought he lay in a carelessly dug open pit, with a crowd of angry faces framed by straggling locks and three cornered hats frowning down on him."
18747,"Walakea allaowed as the things was scattered all over the world, so's anybody that looked abaout cud find a nest an' bring 'em up ef they was wanted."
18748,"Up to his discovery, the process of inflation was not only exceedingly expensive, but uncertain."
18749,"Once I caught the name of Charles Le Sorcier, and again I fancied that the words ""years"" and ""curse"" issued from the twisted mouth."
18750,"She had told Judge Hathorne of lines and curves that could be made to point out directions leading through the walls of space to other spaces beyond, and had implied that such lines and curves were frequently used at certain midnight meetings in the dark valley of the white stone beyond Meadow Hill and on the unpeopled island in the river."
18751,The completion of my demoniacal design became an insatiable passion.
18752,"They consisted of people of the middling and lower classes of society, whose means of subsistence failed with the cessation of trade, and of the busy spirit of money making in all its branches, peculiar to our country."
18753,"My feelings are profound, but I possessed a coolness of judgment that fitted me for illustrious achievements."
18754,What else could I think?
18755,To them he told a simple story.
18756,"It was this object, and not his peculiar personal appearance, which made him end his life."
18757,"The ice desert of the South and the sunken isles of Ocean hold stones whereon Their seal is engraven, but who hath seen the deep frozen city or the sealed tower long garlanded with seaweed and barnacles?"
18758,"There was a considerable difference between the ages of my parents, but this circumstance seemed to unite them only closer in bonds of devoted affection."
18759,"And the will therein lieth, which dieth not."
18760,"Forms strangely robed, but at once noble and familiar, walked abroad, and under the horned waning moon men talked wisdom in a tongue which I understood, though it was unlike any language I had ever known."
18761,My companion will be of the same nature as myself and will be content with the same fare.
18762,They were alive with a teeming horde of shapes swimming inward toward the town; and even at my vast distance and in my single moment of perception I could tell that the bobbing heads and flailing arms were alien and aberrant in a way scarcely to be expressed or consciously formulated.
18763,"As night came on, every breath of wind died away, an more entire calm it is impossible to conceive."
18764,"It was of the size of life, and so perfect an imitation of the living animal that all the spectators were deceived."
18765,"Oh, I kin tell ye, little pitchers hev big ears, an' I wa'n't missin' nothin' o' what was gossiped abaout Cap'n Obed an' the folks aout to the reef Heh, heh, heh Haow abaout the night I took my pa's ship's glass up to the cupalo an' seed the reef a bristlin' thick with shapes that dove off quick soon's the moon riz?"
18766,"It is difficult, indeed, to define, or even to describe, my real feelings towards him."
18767,"But in Teloth was nothing green, for all was of stone."
18768,"Stunned by the shock of the water, I found myself, upon recovery, jammed in between the stern post and rudder."
18769,"I trod heaven in my thoughts, now exulting in my powers, now burning with the idea of their effects."
18770,"I called to mind the great variety of buoyant matter that strewed the coast of Lofoden, having been absorbed and then thrown forth by the Moskoe ström."
18771,"Everywhere I see bliss, from which I alone am irrevocably excluded."
18772,"Just as I placed the parchment in your hand, and as you were in the act of inspecting it, Wolf, the Newfoundland, entered, and leaped upon your shoulders."
18773,"Although M. Maelzel, in disclosing the interior of the machine, sometimes slightly deviates from the routine which we have pointed out, yet reeler in any instance does he so deviate from it as to interfere with our solution."
18774,"""Profound thinker"" said the Dublin."
18775,Pickman was shewing what happens to those stolen babes how they grow up and then I began to see a hideous relationship in the faces of the human and non human figures.
18776,"When the red Aldebaran, which blinked low in the sky but never set, had crawled a quarter of the way around the horizon, I saw light and motion in the houses and the streets."
18777,"It may be advanced for a truth, that, if argument or entreaty can turn any one from a desperate purpose, whose motive and end depends on the strength of the affections only, then it is right so to turn them, since their docility shews, that neither the motive nor the end were of sufficient force to bear them through the obstacles attendant on their undertaking."
18778,"she is undoubtedly in painting what the Venus is in sculpture."""
18779,"His enthusiasm had seemed for the moment to remove from his terrible eyes the hatred that had at first so haunted them, but suddenly the fiendish glare returned, and with a shocking sound like the hissing of a serpent, the stranger raised a glass phial with the evident intent of ending my life as had Charles Le Sorcier, six hundred years before, ended that of my ancestor."
18780,Every breathing creature within the walls was massacred.
18781,"Wilbur was never subsequently seen alive and conscious without complete and tightly buttoned attire, the disarrangement or threatened disarrangement of which always seemed to fill him with anger and alarm."
18782,My heart was bleeding from its death's wound; I could live no otherwise Often amid apparent calm I was visited by despair and melancholy; gloom that nought could dissipate or overcome; a hatred of life; a carelessness of beauty; all these would by fits hold me nearly annihilated by their powers.
18783,"This enthusiasm is now spent, I know not why; I seem to myself to be entering a darksome gulph; the ardent spirit of the army is irksome to me, the rapture of triumph null."""
18784,"Oppressed with a tumult of vague hopes and fears, I at length heard the footsteps of my wife descending the staircase."
18785,"For, this infirmity you virtually deny, in refusing to employ the customary means for its relief."
18786,"But my wonder was not overwhelming, since for the most part I shared the materialism of my friend."
18787,Plainly I perceived the loosening of the bandage.
18788,"I was spared the disgrace of appearing publicly as a criminal, as the case was not brought before the court that decides on life and death."
18789,"The earth, late wide circus for the display of dignified exploits, vast theatre for a magnificent drama, now presented a vacant space, an empty stage for actor or spectator there was no longer aught to say or hear."
18790,"The instant that I left 'the devil's seat,' however, the circular rift vanished; nor could I get a glimpse of it afterwards, turn as I would."
18791,"Upon the broad black marble flagstones at the entrance of the palace, and a few steps above the water, stood a figure which none who then saw can have ever since forgotten."
18792,"That it was not the case, however, my precipitous downfall gave testimony enough; why it was not so, can only be explained by a reference to those possible geological disturbances to which I have formerly alluded."
18793,"In summer the gardens were cooled with fresh odorous breezes skilfully wafted by fans, and in winter they were heated with concealed fires, so that in those gardens it was always spring."
18794,"It was Mr. Ellison who first suggested the idea that what we regarded as improvement or exaltation of the natural beauty, was really such, as respected only the mortal or human point of view; that each alteration or disturbance of the primitive scenery might possibly effect a blemish in the picture, if we could suppose this picture viewed at large from some remote point in the heavens."
18795,"He was blond, handsome, and spoiled; vivacious and eager to taste the several forms of dissipation about which he had read and heard."
18796,"Steps sounded again, and Olney edged round to the north; but before he could find a haven a voice called softly, and he knew he must confront his host."
18797,"She fell dead upon the spot, without a groan."
18798,"""All in Teloth must toil,"" replied the archon, ""for that is the law."""
18799,"Thus ended my conference with the best of men, and immediately upon its termination, I betook myself with zeal to my poetical labors; as upon these, chiefly, I founded my hopes of ultimate elevation to the editorial chair."
18800,"It gave ideality to that, from which, taken in naked truth, the soul would have revolted: it bestowed pictorial colours on misery and disease, and not unfrequently relieved me from despair in deplorable changes."
18801,A neat diddle is this.
18802,"Upon my recovery, too, I felt very oh, inexpressibly sick and weak, as if through long inanition."
18803,"Still others, including Joe himself, have theories too wild and fantastic for sober credence."
18804,He repeated the movement a grotesque one.
18805,"Although she was elder than he by nearly two years the nature of her education made her more childish at least in the knowledge and expression of feeling; she received his warm protestations with innocence, and returned them unknowing of what they meant."
18806,"The flopping animals were now scratching restlessly at the lichens, and I saw that the old man was nearly as restless himself."
18807,"Her faultless nature, one sum of perfections, is wrapt up in her affections if they were hurt, she would droop like an unwatered floweret, and the slightest injury they receive is a nipping frost to her."
18808,"Upon the outbreak of trouble with Great Britain in , William Harris, despite his scant sixteen years and feeble constitution, managed to enlist in the Army of Observation under General Greene; and from that time on enjoyed a steady rise in health and prestige."
18809,"The examination, the presence of the magistrate and witnesses, passed like a dream from my memory when I saw the lifeless form of Henry Clerval stretched before me."
18810,"It was his custom, indeed, to speak calmly of his approaching dissolution, as of a matter neither to be avoided nor regretted."
18811,"So much has been done, exclaimed the soul of Frankenstein more, far more, will I achieve; treading in the steps already marked, I will pioneer a new way, explore unknown powers, and unfold to the world the deepest mysteries of creation."
18812,"Would that I also had a career Would that I could freight some untried bark with all my hopes, energies, and desires, and launch it forth into the ocean of life bound for some attainable point, with ambition or pleasure at the helm But adverse winds detain me on shore; like Ulysses, I sit at the water's edge and weep."
18813,"Any scrap will answer, because you must depend upon your own ingenuity to make it fit into your article."
18814,"I was still cold when under one of the trees I found a huge cloak, with which I covered myself, and sat down upon the ground."
18815,"As he justly observed, it was ""simple neat and gave no trouble at all not the least."""
18816,They shrank alarmedly back; many sought the well.
18817,"It is the likeness of a dead friend a Mr. Oldeb to whom I became much attached at Calcutta, during the administration of Warren Hastings."
18818,"But everteeming Nature will create another and another, and thou wilt loose nought by my destruction."
18819,"They will soon rise again, however but not till the salt melts."""
18820,"Close curtains were around it, which, in the prosecution of my plan, I slowly and quietly withdrew, when the bright rays fell vividly upon the sleeper, and my eyes, at the same moment, upon his countenance."
18821,"I must be careful how I record my awaking today, for I am unstrung, and much hallucination is necessarily mixed with fact."
18822,I merely laughed but he seemed quite serious in all that he said.
18823,An hour thus elapsed when could it be possible?
18824,"It was during one of my lonely journeyings, amid a far distant region of mountain locked within mountain, and sad rivers and melancholy tarn writhing or sleeping within all that I chanced upon a certain rivulet and island."
18825,"At a piano, singing an aria from Bellini, sat a young and very beautiful woman, who, at my entrance, paused in her song, and received me with graceful courtesy."
18826,"In childhood I must have felt with the energy of a man what I now find stamped upon memory in lines as vivid, as deep, and as durable as the exergues of the Carthaginian medals."
18827,"dee Hi Hi Randy"" A swaying lantern came around the black bend, and old Benijah pounced on the silent and bewildered form of the pilgrim."
18828,"Had they not, indeed, been intoxicated beyond moral sense, their reeling footsteps must have been palsied by the horrors of their situation."
18829,"The upper part overhung the narrow grass grown street and nearly met the overhanging part of the house opposite, so that I was almost in a tunnel, with the low stone doorstep wholly free from snow."
18830,These words were syllabled trembling by the iron man.
18831,"""And will you promise me, upon your honor, that when this freak of yours is over, and the bug business good God settled to your satisfaction, you will then return home and follow my advice implicitly, as that of your physician?"""
18832,"We forgot that Malcolm and Macduff were mere human beings, acted upon by such simple passions as warmed our own breasts."
18833,"The Rubicon, I felt, was passed; and it behoved me well to reflect what I should do on this hither side of disease and danger."
18834,"The spirit of life seemed to linger in his form, as a dying flame on an altar flickers on the embers of an accepted sacrifice."
18835,"I have indeed ""made history."""
18836,"My mother, when dying, had, in addition to her other half forgotten and misapplied lessons, committed, with solemn exhortation, her other child to my fraternal guardianship; and this one duty I performed to the best of my ability, with all the zeal and affection of which my nature was capable."
18837,"Donning these, he reached for the volume on the table and turned the pages lovingly."
18838,"Accordingly I hid myself in some thick underwood, determining to devote the ensuing hours to reflection on my situation."
18839,"So far, I had not opened my eyes."
18840,"""But proceed I am all impatience."""
18841,"To give to this a better colouring, I had contrived to have assembled a party of some eight or ten, and was solicitously careful that the introduction of cards should appear accidental, and originate in the proposal of my contemplated dupe himself."
18842,"Armitage,"" he said, ""I calc'late I've got to take that book home."
18843,"He held up the curtain of the bed; and his eyes, if eyes they may be called, were fixed on me."
18844,"This, to say the truth, must have cost him no little money, and was made to fit him exceedingly well being fashioned from one of the curiously embroidered silken covers appertaining to those glorious escutcheons which, in England and elsewhere, are customarily hung up, in some conspicuous place, upon the dwellings of departed aristocracy."
18845,"Friends had held him when he drew a stiletto, but West departed amidst his inhuman shrieks, curses, and oaths of vengeance."
18846,You know not what you mean.
18847,That upstairs looks it will have the right cast.
18848,"""Looking about me upon the wide waste of liquid ebony on which we were thus borne, I perceived that our boat was not the only object in the embrace of the whirl."
18849,"Her own attitude toward shadowed Innsmouth which she had never seen was one of disgust at a community slipping far down the cultural scale, and she assured me that the rumours of devil worship were partly justified by a peculiar secret cult which had gained force there and engulfed all the orthodox churches."
18850,"And now, behold, with the first imagination of danger, or, if you will, the first mighty and terrific trial of your courage, you shrink away and are content to be handed down as men who had not strength enough to endure cold and peril; and so, poor souls, they were chilly and returned to their warm firesides."
18851,"The extreme fury of the blast proved, in a great measure, the salvation of the ship."
18852,"Went to the theatre, to look for Gruff."
18853,"Thus I found that my senses would shortly give way altogether, and I had already clutched one of the valve ropes with the view of attempting a descent, when the recollection of the trick I had played the three creditors, and the possible consequences to myself, should I return, operated to deter me for the moment."
18854,"Perdita was to become the pupil, friend and younger sister of Evadne."
18855,"The words were venom in my ears; and when, upon the day of my arrival, a second William Wilson came also to the academy, I felt angry with him for bearing the name, and doubly disgusted with the name because a stranger bore it, who would be the cause of its twofold repetition, who would be constantly in my presence, and whose concerns, in the ordinary routine of the school business, must inevitably, on account of the detestable coincidence, be often confounded with my own."
18856,"It was the best that moderate means could afford, and Harris hastened to move in before the birth of a fifth child which the family expected."
18857,"""Before I come on board your vessel,"" said he, ""will you have the kindness to inform me whither you are bound?"""
18858,"He may have traced it to the chamber; but, under the agitating circumstances which ensued, he could never have re captured it."
18859,Man's yesterday may ne'er be like his morrow; Nought may endure but mutability It was nearly noon when I arrived at the top of the ascent.
18860,"It seemed to me impossible that she could recognise the sound, but she persisted in her assertion till she gained credit with the crowd about."
18861,"I lost no time, however, in calling upon the editor of the ""Lollipop,"" and had the good fortune to find this gentleman at home."
18862,"The port holes were open, and with every sea, which as she lurched, washed her decks, they received whole tons of water."
18863,"From comparatively trivial wickedness I passed, with the stride of a giant, into more than the enormities of an Elah Gabalus."
18864,I knew that much of my route must be visible from the Rowley road.
18865,"It is true, we shall be monsters, cut off from all the world; but on that account we shall be more attached to one another."
18866,"From the East tempestuous winds arose, and chilled me as I crouched on the slab of damp stone which had risen beneath my feet."
18867,"In fact, having once satisfied themselves that no egress could have been made in this quarter, they would naturally bestow here a very cursory examination."
18868,"When first she left her peasant life, and resided with the elegant and cultivated Evadne, the only accomplishment she brought to any perfection was that of painting, for which she had a taste almost amounting to genius."
18869,Its weight was about two ounces.
18870,"All that he now enjoyed would have been devoid of pleasure to him, had it been unparticipated."
18871,"Once I tried to escape from the forest, but as I went farther from the castle the shade grew denser and the air more filled with brooding fear; so that I ran frantically back lest I lose my way in a labyrinth of nighted silence."
18872,"The forehead was high, and very pale, and singularly placid; and the once jetty hair fell partially over it, and overshadowed the hollow temples with innumerable ringlets, now of a vivid yellow, and jarring discordantly, in their fantastic character, with the reigning melancholy of the countenance."
18873,"His accent of bitter scorn thrilled me ""Do not tempt me to speak,"" he continued, ""my words would scare you in an universe of cowards I dare think among the church yard tombs among the victims of His merciless tyranny I dare reproach the Supreme Evil."
18874,"He is Gustaf Johansen, a Norwegian of some intelligence, and had been second mate of the two masted schooner Emma of Auckland, which sailed for Callao February th with a complement of eleven men."
18875,The gamekeepers were more enraged than their lord by my obstinacy.
18876,"I can ill record the flow of language and graceful turns of expression, the wit and easy raillery that gave vigour and influence to his speech."
18877,"Oh, never, never, may I see him again Tomorrow night the same roof may not cover us; he or I must depart."
18878,"His throat was aching inexplicably, and as he struggled to a sitting posture he saw with growing fright that his feet and pajama bottoms were brown with caked mud."
18879,"Destiny was too potent, and her immutable laws had decreed my utter and terrible destruction."
18880,I leaned against a tree to observe them.
18881,"Perpetual fretting at length threw Madame Moritz into a decline, which at first increased her irritability, but she is now at peace for ever."
18882,"No outlet was observed in any portion of its vast extent, and no torch, or other artificial source of light was discernible; yet a flood of intense rays rolled throughout, and bathed the whole in a ghastly and inappropriate splendor."
18883,"What a divine day How happy and serene all nature appears"" Thus Elizabeth endeavoured to divert her thoughts and mine from all reflection upon melancholy subjects."
18884,I have not the slightest fear for the result.
18885,"Elizabeth had caught the scarlet fever; her illness was severe, and she was in the greatest danger."
18886,"There then followed an exhaustive comparison of details, and a moment of really awed silence when both detective and scientist agreed on the virtual identity of the phrase common to two hellish rituals so many worlds of distance apart."
18887,"It was the Sydney Bulletin I have mentioned, for my friend has wide affiliations in all conceivable foreign parts; and the picture was a half tone cut of a hideous stone image almost identical with that which Legrasse had found in the swamp."
18888,"The face was so far turned toward the stage that, for some minutes, I could not obtain a view of it but the form was divine; no other word can sufficiently express its magnificent proportion and even the term ""divine"" seems ridiculously feeble as I write it."
18889,In height I am five feet eleven.
18890,"His wife was, indeed, as she had been represented, a most lovely, and most accomplished woman."
18891,"Upon returning home I went with much directness to a rotting chest in the attic, wherein I found the key which next day unlocked with ease the barrier I had so long stormed in vain."
18892,"I had prized it greatly, yet nevertheless felt a sensation of relief at its disappearance."
18893,"Among the others he saw Professor Warren Rice and Dr. Francis Morgan, men to whom he had told some of his conjectures and misgivings; and these two he motioned to accompany him inside."
18894,"I must suppose the ship to be within the influence of some strong current, or impetuous under tow."
18895,Neither was this species of scepticism likely to be diminished by the character of the life I led at Eton.
18896,"Hidden behind heavy curtains stood the two unfinished figures of Tyché, little touched of late by the sick man and his faithful attendant."
18897,"Thereafter those in the towers and without the walls beheld strange lights on the water, and saw that the grey rock Akurion, which was wont to rear high above it near the shore, was almost submerged."
18898,"Suddenly the urn to which I clung began to tremble, as if sharing my own lethal dizziness; and in another instant my body was plunging downward to I knew not what fate."
18899,Thus would she assuredly act if her darkened eyes opened and she beheld me.
18900,The distance of its bottom from the deck overhead was precisely the same.
18901,"It was in good preservation, having received, apparently, little injury from the convulsion which entombed it."
18902,I had an insistent and unaccountable craving for a sleep whose dreams I should not remember.
18903,"They are almost hidden now in lawless luxuriances of green and guardian shrouds of shadow; but the small paned windows still stare shockingly, as if blinking through a lethal stupor which wards off madness by dulling the memory of unutterable things."
18904,Is not every word an impulse on the air?
18905,"Five years gave a sober certainty to their emotions, though it did not rob them of their etherial nature."
18906,"On a dreary heath bestrewen with stones, among which short grass grew; and here and there a few rushes beside a little pool."
18907,This gate is inserted in the lofty wall; which here appears to cross the river at right angles.
18908,"It was of no remarkable character, and I had seen it frequently before, for it was the property of the family physician; but how came it there, upon my table, and why did I shudder in regarding it?"
18909,"It is not to be supposed that a lady, or gentleman either, has been leading the life of a book worm."
18910,"All Paris is excited by the discovered corpse of Marie, a girl young, beautiful and notorious."
18911,And the organs never would work again.
18912,"He had habitually slept at night beyond the ordinary time, and upon waking would often talk of unknown things in a manner so bizarre as to inspire fear even in the hearts of an unimaginative populace."
18913,"In scrutinizing the edges of the paper, I observed them to be more chafed than seemed necessary."
18914,"Fearing to give me pain, she hid as best she could the excess of her wretchedness, but meeting thus her brother after a long absence, she could not restrain the expression of her woe, but with all the vividness of imagination with which misery is always replete, she poured out the emotions of her heart to her beloved and sympathizing Adrian."
18915,"These men indeed went to the lake to view Sarnath; but though they found the vast still lake itself, and the grey rock Akurion which rears high above it near the shore, they beheld not the wonder of the world and pride of all mankind."
18916,"""I have written myself into better spirits, dear cousin; but my anxiety returns upon me as I conclude."
18917,"Yet, for a wild moment, did my spirit refuse to comprehend the meaning of what I saw."
18918,Whole body dreadfully bruised and discolored.
18919,"Were they the same waters of love, which, lately cold and cutting as ice, repelling as that, now loosened from their frozen chains, flowed through the regions of her soul in gushing and grateful exuberance?"
18920,"forbear that is sufficient we see, very plainly, how it is done hold hold"" and several persons were already leaping from their seats to withhold Ma'm'selle Salsafette from putting herself upon a par with the Medicean Venus, when the point was very effectually and suddenly accomplished by a series of loud screams, or yells, from some portion of the main body of the chateau."
18921,"Klenze seemed very nervous, and drank heavily."
18922,Why then give a date to this story I have to tell?
18923,I waited for some explanation from Dupin.
18924,"To relieve this, Dr. Templeton resorted to topical bleeding."
18925,"Monsieur Le Blanc was unable to account for her absence, and Madame Rogêt was distracted with anxiety and terror."
18926,"I say, this occasioned me no little amazement; for I well remember that, in a former conversation with a friend, I particularly inquired if he had at any time met in London the Marchesa di Mentoni, who for some years previous to her marriage had resided in that city, when his answer, if I mistake not, gave me to understand that he had never visited the metropolis of Great Britain."
18927,These are the words that it contained.
18928,"You did say that ""divested of corporate investiture man were God."" V."
18929,"He consoles himself, however, that he has not been such a fool as to leave the goods without the money, and re entering his shop with a self satisfied air, feels sensibly hurt and indignant when his master asks him what has become of the change."
18930,"He has committed an ignoratio elenchi that is to say, he has understood the words of your proposition, but not the idea."
18931,"With these materials and with the aid of my trowel, I began vigorously to wall up the entrance of the niche."
18932,"Had but little difficulty in getting it open, on account of its being a double or folding gate, and bolted neither at bottom not top."
18933,A mixture of pure art in a garden scene adds to it a great beauty.
18934,Many were quite awry.
18935,"For one brief interval before this catastrophe, he looked forward to the future, and contemplated with anguish the desolate situation in which his wife and children would be left."
18936,Think you that the groans of Clerval were music to my ears?
18937,"Why are there fruits, or flowers, or streams, man is not here to enjoy them?"
18938,"For a moment I was inclined to use persuasion, regarding rather lightly the whims of senility; and even tried to awaken my host's weirder mood by whistling a few of the strains to which I had listened the night before."
18939,"Without, however, taking offence at behaviour so excessively rude, the tall president smiled very graciously upon the intruders nodded to them in a dignified manner with his head of sable plumes and, arising, took each by an arm, and led him to a seat which some others of the company had placed in the meantime for his accommodation."
18940,"Several new kinds of plants sprang up in the garden, which they dressed; and these signs of comfort increased daily as the season advanced."
18941,"Curiosity flared up beyond sense and caution, and in my youthful egotism I fancied I might be able to sift a nucleus of real history from the confused, extravagant outpouring I would probably extract with the aid of raw whiskey."
18942,"The date, I may thus say, in regard to the remoteness of its antiquity, cannot be less than any assignable quantity whatsoever."
18943,"He led me out of that tangle of alleys in another direction, it seems, for when we sighted a lamp post we were in a half familiar street with monotonous rows of mingled tenement blocks and old houses."
18944,He had bow legs and was corpulent.
18945,"I had gazed on him while unfinished; he was ugly then, but when those muscles and joints were rendered capable of motion, it became a thing such as even Dante could not have conceived."
18946,"After a while, I heard the voice of an old Swede, who had shipped with us at the moment of our leaving port."
18947,"The disease which had thus entombed the lady in the maturity of youth, had left, as usual in all maladies of a strictly cataleptical character, the mockery of a faint blush upon the bosom and the face, and that suspiciously lingering smile upon the lip which is so terrible in death."
18948,"The boat, nevertheless, glides magically into the winding channel; and here the shore opposite the wall is found to resemble that opposite the wall in the straight vista."
18949,"Two Lascar sailors at once helped him to his feet, but before the ambulance could reach him he was dead."
18950,"Mr. Goldsmith, a little Man very vain of his Dress and very deficient in Brilliancy of Conversation, was my particular Favourite; since I was equally unable to shine in the Discourse."
18951,"His madness, or at least his partial perversion, seemed beyond dispute."
18952,"As for the Quarterly cant about ""sustained effort,"" it is impossible to see the sense of it."
18953,They were loud loud as the rumblings and the thunder above which they echoed yet did they come from no visible being.
18954,"Then, as if pursued by an enemy, as if wings had been at her feet, she flew to her own apartment, she dismissed her attendants, she locked the doors, she threw herself wildly on the floor, she bit her lips even to blood to suppress her shrieks, and lay long a prey to the vulture of despair, striving not to think, while multitudinous ideas made a home of her heart; and ideas, horrid as furies, cruel as vipers, and poured in with such swift succession, that they seemed to jostle and wound each other, while they worked her up to madness."
18955,"Thomas"" turning to me ""is decidedly the best hand at a cork leg; but if you should ever want an arm, my dear fellow, you must really let me recommend you to Bishop."""
18956,"The tenant adjoining him complained of the icy air from around the connecting door, so I helped him fit heavy hangings to obviate the difficulty."
18957,"No unguided footstep ever came upon that vale; for it lay away up among a range of giant hills that hung beetling around about it, shutting out the sunlight from its sweetest recesses."
18958,"But this cannot be thought a very ""acute"" observation of the Doctor's."
18959,"He had been somewhere he ought not to be; had strayed very far away to places where he had not belonged, and was now inexcusably late."
18960,"We found him just about to embark in his boat, and he readily agreed to receive us as companions."
18961,"It is not by flying, but by facing the enemy, that we can conquer."
18962,The bishop was last to go.
18963,"But here the voyager quits the vessel which has borne him so far, and descends into a light canoe of ivory, stained with arabesque devices in vivid scarlet, both within and without."
18964,"An officer bent reluctantly over the loathsome glassy eyed form and found the tissue wrapped cardboard, which he passed around among the others."
18965,"The floor of the forest was mossy and mysterious, and great lichened rocks rose vaguely here and there in the dim light like Druid monoliths among the swollen and twisted trunks of a sacred grove."
18966,"Then, bolder than the storied Cyclops, great Cthulhu slid greasily into the water and began to pursue with vast wave raising strokes of cosmic potency."
18967,"Alas, how great was the contrast between us He was alive to every new scene, joyful when he saw the beauties of the setting sun, and more happy when he beheld it rise and recommence a new day."
18968,"""I am alive,"" were the uncomprehended words which, upon recognizing the locality of the dissecting room, he had endeavored, in his extremity, to utter."
18969,"Again he thought, how during this long month, he had avoided Perdita, flying from her as from the stings of his own conscience."
18970,The opposite mountain is a bare perpendicular rock.
18971,"Ages perhaps had elapsed since this catastrophe; and the ruin it had made above, had been repaired by the growth of vegetation during many hundred summers."
18972,"But it has been shown that, in the inorganic life, pain cannot be thus the necessity for the organic."
18973,"On the source of Slater's visions they speculated at length, for since he could neither read nor write, and had apparently never heard a legend or fairy tale, his gorgeous imagery was quite inexplicable."
18974,"His body is situated behind the dense machinery in cupboard No. T. the rear portion of which machinery is so contrived as to slip en masse, from the main compartment to the cupboard No. I, as occasion may require, and his legs lie at full length in the main compartment."
18975,These were carefully removed and searched.
18976,"O, yes, it would Countrymen, fear not In the still uncultivated wilds of America, what wonder that among its other giant destroyers, Plague should be numbered It is of old a native of the East, sister of the tornado, the earthquake, and the simoon."
18977,"From its machicolated parapets and mounted battlements Barons, Counts, and even Kings had been defied, yet never had its spacious halls resounded to the footsteps of the invader."
18978,"I had risen mechanically my knees trembled; irresolution hung on my voice, as I uttered a few words on the necessity of choosing a person adequate to the dangerous task in hand."
18979,"As I turned the promontory I perceived a small neat town and a good harbour, which I entered, my heart bounding with joy at my unexpected escape."
18980,"The deductions from the premises are philosophical and acute; but the premises, in two instances, at least, are founded in imperfect observation."
18981,The dress was much torn and otherwise disordered.
18982,I could now almost fancy myself among the Swiss mountains.
18983,"With regard to myself, this came almost by inheritance."
18984,"I gave several hours to the serious consideration of this difficulty, but I was obliged to relinquish all attempt to supply it, and wrapping myself up in my cloak, I struck across the wood towards the setting sun."
18985,"No man can tell there is no refuge on earth, it comes on us like a thousand packs of wolves we must all fly where shall you go?"
18986,"""Butt end ram down my eye"" ""O yes, by the by, my eye here, Pompey, you scamp, screw it in Those Kickapoos are not so very slow at a gouge; but he's a belied man, that Dr. Williams, after all; you can't imagine how well I see with the eyes of his make."""
18987,"It was dawn, and she quitted her asylum, that she might again endeavour to find my brother."
18988,"I had completed the eighth, the ninth, and the tenth tier."
18989,"To one entering the room, they bore the appearance of simple monstrosities; but upon a farther advance, this appearance gradually departed; and step by step, as the visitor moved his station in the chamber, he saw himself surrounded by an endless succession of the ghastly forms which belong to the superstition of the Norman, or arise in the guilty slumbers of the monk."
18990,"I had become most unaccountably interested nay, even excited."
18991,"So you see he would have been a very profound old man, indeed, to suspect that every night, just at twelve, I looked in upon him while he slept."
18992,I who sought and had found joy in the love breathing countenance of my father now when I dared fix on him a supplicating look it was ever answered by an angry frown.
18993,"And they say that the Terrible Old Man talks to these bottles, addressing them by such names as Jack, Scar Face, Long Tom, Spanish Joe, Peters, and Mate Ellis, and that whenever he speaks to a bottle the little lead pendulum within makes certain definite vibrations as if in answer."
18994,"She then bade him, with the eloquence of despair and of unalterable love, a last farewell."
18995,"To call up the people of the inn, and obtain a conveyance and horses, even though I harnessed them myself, was the work of many minutes; minutes, each freighted with the weight of ages."
18996,"Oh How unlike it was to the blue seasons of the south Covered with ice, it was only to be distinguished from land by its superior wildness and ruggedness."
18997,A reply rejoinder confutation and justification followed in the columns of a Democratic Gazette.
18998,"Again there is a sound as of a human voice, but hoarser; it comes from the cabin where the remains of Frankenstein still lie."
18999,"It's well above water a good part of the time, and never much below it, but at that you could hardly call it an island."
19000,"This matter of the spectral piping harassed me greatly, and I wondered if the crickets of autumn had come before their time to vex the night and haunt the visions of men."
19001,"It contained, when afloat, the captain and his wife, Mr. Wyatt and party, a Mexican officer, wife, four children, and myself, with a negro valet."
19002,"He left the hotel before me, intending to go to New York, and thence to Bremen; it was in the latter city that his great discovery was first made public; or, rather, it was there that he was first suspected of having made it."
19003,I think I was paralysed for an instant.
19004,"And out of this melancholy water arose a forest of tall eastern trees, like a wilderness of dreams."
19005,"Late we envied their abodes, their spicy groves, fertile plains, and abundant loveliness."
19006,"What would happen on reanimation, and whether we could hope for a revival of mind and reason, West did not venture to predict."
19007,Obed finally got her married off by a trick to an Arkham feller as didn't suspect nothin'.
19008,The waters give up no voice to the heavens.
19009,"This, it must be remembered, was in the broad light of day."
19010,"Depart to your home and commence your labours; I shall watch their progress with unutterable anxiety; and fear not but that when you are ready I shall appear."""
19011,"Like these arabesque censers, my spirit is writhing in fire, and the delirium of this scene is fashioning me for the wilder visions of that land of real dreams whither I am now rapidly departing."""
19012,"His gentleness was never tinged by dogmatism, and his instructions were given with an air of frankness and good nature that banished every idea of pedantry."
19013,"I told him, he shou'd not try to pasquinade the Source of his sy."
19014,"Having satisfied her curiosity if such it was she dropped the glass, and quietly gave her attention again to the stage; her profile now being turned toward myself, as before."
19015,"""It was about seven in the morning, and I longed to obtain food and shelter; at length I perceived a small hut, on a rising ground, which had doubtless been built for the convenience of some shepherd."
19016,"""The pleasant showers and genial warmth of spring greatly altered the aspect of the earth."
19017,"Galpin now devoted his time to the library and lecture platform, preparing volumes and speeches on various subjects connected with belles lettres, and always shewing a genius so remarkable that it seemed as if the public must sometime pardon him for his past mistakes."
19018,"Wealthy beyond the necessity of a commercial life, and temperamentally unfitted for the formal studies and social recreations of my acquaintances, I have dwelt ever in realms apart from the visible world; spending my youth and adolescence in ancient and little known books, and in roaming the fields and groves of the region near my ancestral home."
19019,"Twice I actually hired myself as an under mate in a Greenland whaler, and acquitted myself to admiration."
19020,"The hunger of Death was now stung more sharply by the diminution of his food: or was it that before, the survivors being many, the dead were less eagerly counted?"
19021,"At length these obnoxious visits suddenly ceased altogether, but from that moment I must date the change of my father: a change that to remember makes me shudder and then filled me with the deepest grief."
19022,"O' course them as sarved on the Sumatry Queen an' seed the island knowed what he meant, an' wa'n't none too anxious to git clost to sea things like they'd heerd tell on, but them as didn't know what 'twas all abaout got kind o' swayed by what Obed had to say, an' begun to ast him what he cud do to set 'em on the way to the faith as ud bring 'em results."""
19023,Total annihilation could be no more.
19024,"The lips were gently protruded, and rested the one upon the other, after such a fashion that it is impossible to conceive any, even the most complex, combination of human features, conveying so entirely, and so singly, the idea of unmitigated gravity, solemnity and repose."
19025,"That was why, when establishing his practice in Bolton, he had chosen an isolated house near the potter's field."
19026,"My frantic running ceased before I had covered a block, for at my left I began to hear something like the hue and cry of organised pursuit."
19027,"He had been accustomed, however, to quiet the creature, even in its fiercest moods, by the use of a whip, and to this he now resorted."
19028,That same night saw the beginning of the second Arkham horror the horror that to me eclipsed the plague itself.
19029,"""It took Obed to git the truth aout o' them heathen."
19030,"But the walks of Marie may, in general, be supposed discursive."
19031,"It was now midnight, and my task was drawing to a close."
19032,"Were the Automaton life like in its motions, the spectator would be more apt to attribute its operations to their true cause, that is, to human agency within than he is now, when the awkward and rectangular manoeuvres convey the idea of pure and unaided mechanism. ."
19033,"But I must first render you all the little attentions in my power."""
19034,"But as the Baron listened, or affected to listen, to the gradually increasing uproar in the stables of Berlifitzing or perhaps pondered upon some more novel, some more decided act of audacity his eyes became unwittingly rivetted to the figure of an enormous, and unnaturally colored horse, represented in the tapestry as belonging to a Saracen ancestor of the family of his rival."
19035,"Methought the charm would be broken if I were seen, but I heard the music of her voice and was happy."
19036,"Why, otherwise, since it was about dusk, should she make a point of the haste?"
19037,"The matter stands thus: In the first place your writer of intensities must have very black ink, and a very big pen, with a very blunt nib."
19038,"By the time that she had with uneasy thoughts laid her fair cheek upon her pillow, her mother's servant brought a draught; a suspicion again crossed her at this novel proceeding, sufficiently alarming to determine her not to take the potion; but dislike of contention, and a wish to discover whether there was any just foundation for her conjectures, made her, she said, almost instinctively, and in contradiction to her usual frankness, pretend to swallow the medicine."
19039,"The mystery remains unsolved to this day, though the image is on exhibition at the museum of Miskatonic University."
19040,"For months I could not rid myself of the phantasm of the cat; and, during this period, there came back into my spirit a half sentiment that seemed, but was not, remorse."
19041,"They said something about a ""psychosis"", and agreed I had better get any harassing obsessions off my mind."
19042,"Aira's beauty is past imagining, and none can tell of it without rapture, whilst of Oonai the camel drivers whisper leeringly."""
19043,"And evil was the hour when she saw, and loved, and wedded the painter."
19044,"""By the time I had fully completed these arrangements and filled the chamber as explained, it wanted only ten minutes of nine o'clock."
19045,"Besides I could not extract from my memory that hideous, inhuman shriek we heard on the night we tried our first experiment in the deserted farmhouse at Arkham."
19046,The principle expressed is incontrovertible but there may be something beyond it.
19047,To queries put to him by any other person than myself he seemed utterly insensible although I endeavored to place each member of the company in mesmeric rapport with him.
19048,"Thou holdest the keys of the frost, and canst first chain and then set free the streams; under thy gentle governance the buds and leaves are born, they flourish nursed by thee."
19049,"And then I recall how I laughed when I stumbled on the passageway; the hole at the base of the old chimney, where the thick weeds grew and cast queer shadows in the light of the lone candle I had happened to have with me."
19050,"They are to be found in Crebillon's 'Atrée.'"""
19051,In this way it was possible to insert the whole upper part of the bag between the net work and the hoop.
19052,"I still lay quietly, and made effort to exercise my reason."
19053,"Then one night the red and fattened Romnod snorted heavily amidst the poppied silks of his banquet couch and died writhing, whilst Iranon, pale and slender, sang to himself in a far corner."
19054,"It was the ultimate product of mammalian degeneration; the frightful outcome of isolated spawning, multiplication, and cannibal nutrition above and below the ground; the embodiment of all the snarling chaos and grinning fear that lurk behind life."
19055,"A spark appeared on the moor, a flame arose, and a pillar of human fire reached to the heavens."
19056,During her illness many arguments had been urged to persuade my mother to refrain from attending upon her.
19057,She sought to improve her understanding; mechanically her heart and dispositions became soft and gentle under this benign discipline.
19058,"Of Gerrit Martense's descendants less is known than of himself; since they were all reared in hatred of the English civilisation, and trained to shun such of the colonists as accepted it."
19059,"Let the day therefore be fixed; and on it I will consecrate myself, in life or death, to the happiness of my cousin."""
19060,It was the portrait of a young girl just ripening into womanhood.
19061,"This change made us only the more sensible to the delights of the intimate intercourse of our own circle, the tranquillity of our divine forest, and our happy evenings in the halls of our beloved Castle."
19062,"A south west wind brought up rain the sun came out, and mocking the usual laws of nature, seemed even at this early season to burn with solsticial force."
19063,Had he not told his colleagues to be as gentle as possible with the pathetic old sea captain?
19064,"To me their interest depended less on this circumstance than on the peculiarly appropriate way in which they dovetailed with certain other things the complaint of the departing servant Preserved Smith, who had preceded Ann and never heard of her, that something ""sucked his breath"" at night; the death certificates of fever victims of , issued by Dr. Chad Hopkins, and shewing the four deceased persons all unaccountably lacking in blood; and the obscure passages of poor Rhoby Harris's ravings, where she complained of the sharp teeth of a glassy eyed, half visible presence."
19065,"Some of the items were delicate and inspiring enough, but there was one box of strange old pieces descended from my mysterious great grandmother which my uncle was almost reluctant to produce."
19066,The boys heard with childish glee of our removal: Clara asked if we were to go to Athens.
19067,"Grandson of Captain Obed Marsh, who founded the business."
19068,"I had been awake the whole of the preceding night, my nerves were agitated, and my eyes inflamed by watching and misery."
19069,We remained for the night at Luton.
19070,"On my asking him what he thought of my favourable Notice of his Dictionary in The Londoner, my periodical Paper, he said: ""Sir, I possess no Recollection of having perus'd your Paper, and have not a great Interest in the Opinions of the less thoughtful Part of Mankind."""
19071,"Proprieties of place, and especially of time, are the bugbears which terrify mankind from the contemplation of the magnificent."
19072,"""A thousand pounds,"" said I. ""Do you warrant it?"" he asked, turning the nose to the light."
19073,"Upon the death of Theodoric in , Ibidus retired from public life to compose his celebrated work whose pure Ciceronian style is as remarkable a case of classic atavism as is the verse of Claudius Claudianus, who flourished a century before Ibidus; but he was later recalled to scenes of pomp to act as court rhetorician for Theodatus, nephew of Theodoric."
19074,It might have a vapory it might even have a tangible form.
19075,"I resolved to visit London, to see him; to quiet these agonizing throes by the sweet medicine of hope, or the opiate of despair."
19076,"""If you please, uncle precisely."""
19077,He had indeed come back to the Valley of Ooth Nargai and the splendid city of Celephaïs.
19078,The stranger has gradually improved in health but is very silent and appears uneasy when anyone except myself enters his cabin.
19079,"It was a simple, rambling thing a naive sailor's effort at a post facto diary and strove to recall day by day that last awful voyage."
19080,"And because mere walls and windows must soon drive to madness a man who dreams and reads much, the dweller in that room used night after night to lean out and peer aloft to glimpse some fragment of things beyond the waking world and the greyness of tall cities."
19081,"I ate my breakfast with pleasure and was about to remove a plank to procure myself a little water when I heard a step, and looking through a small chink, I beheld a young creature, with a pail on her head, passing before my hovel."
19082,"His very horse seemed to back from the fatal entrance; his dog, his faithful dog, lay moaning and supplicating in his path in a moment more, he had plunged the rowels into the sides of the stung animal, who bounded forward, and he, the gateway passed, was galloping up the broad and desart street."
19083,"Convinced myself, I seek not to convince."
19084,Perdita was all sufficient to herself.
19085,"Had it been possible to adduce fifty instead of five examples of bodies found floating at the end of two or three days, these fifty examples could still have been properly regarded only as exceptions to L'Etoile's rule, until such time as the rule itself should be confuted."
19086,"De L'Omelette pressed his hand upon his heart, closed his eyes, raised them, and caught his Satanic Majesty in a blush."
19087,"Having strown it with fir boughs, all now rested on it with drawn automatics, two relaxing while the third watched."
19088,"I might be said even to love my enemies, since by exciting me they in a sort bestowed happiness upon me; Perdita almost disliked her friends, for they interfered with her visionary moods."
19089,"I expressed a wish to visit England, but concealing the true reasons of this request, I clothed my desires under a guise which excited no suspicion, while I urged my desire with an earnestness that easily induced my father to comply."
19090,"""As soon as the balloon quits the earth, it is subjected to the influence of many circumstances tending to create a difference in its weight; augmenting or diminishing its ascending power."
19091,The sun does not more certainly shine in the heavens than that which I now affirm is true.
19092,"Combining with taste her remembrance of the edifices which she had seen in the east, and by an effort of genius enduing them with unity of design, she executed the plan which had been sent to the Protector."
19093,"They found Gilman on the floor of his queerly angled old garret room long before dawn, for the terrible cry had brought Desrochers and Choynski and Dombrowski and Mazurewicz at once, and had even wakened the soundly sleeping Elwood in his chair."
19094,There are two bodies the rudimental and the complete; corresponding with the two conditions of the worm and the butterfly.
19095,Now this is the point.
19096,"One seeks to recall the original beauty of the country, by adapting its means to the surrounding scenery; cultivating trees in harmony with the hills or plain of the neighboring land; detecting and bringing into practice those nice relations of size, proportion and color which, hid from the common observer, are revealed everywhere to the experienced student of nature."
19097,Then I noticed that I was not alone in the room and put the ray projector back in my pocket.
19098,I guess I done a bit by tellin' Selectman Mowry what I see from the cupalo.
19099,"Voices began questioning Armitage about what he knew of the thing, and no reply seemed quite to satisfy."
19100,"In the early evening we rose to the surface, and found the sea less heavy."
19101,"I asked him, if he had ever seen among the troops any one resembling her; if since he had returned to Greece he had heard of her?"
19102,I had to tell Harris because he owned the house and deserved to know what had gone out of it.
19103,"A huge bucket with water stood at one extremity of the room, and a clock of stupendous dimensions at the other."
19104,"It was the pursuit, the extension of the idea, which had engendered awe."
19105,"It was the Yuletide, that men call Christmas though they know in their hearts it is older than Bethlehem and Babylon, older than Memphis and mankind."
19106,But your direction was northwards.
19107,"Such places have strange properties, and the legacy of insane legend might well have acted on more than one human imagination amidst those dead, stench cursed streets and huddles of rotting roofs and crumbling steeples."
19108,"It will have been, by that time, totally destroyed, at three different periods, by three successive earthquakes."
19109,"Believing him just conscious after a fainting fit, I renewed my rapping, at the same time calling out my name reassuringly."
19110,"Now, in my intense desire to probe into the dream life of Joe Slater, I sought these instruments again; and spent several days in repairing them for action."
19111,Let not these aspirations be attributed to vanity.
19112,Yet I must believe that my first mental development had in it much of the uncommon even much of the outre.
19113,"Yes, that was the thing."
19114,I resolved to be guided by the paternal advice.
19115,"You had mentioned Geneva as the name of your native town, and towards this place I resolved to proceed."
19116,"Adrian took pity on my faltering mien: ""Come with me,"" he said, ""I have much to say to you; come home with me you know who I am?"" ""Yes,"" I exclaimed, ""I do believe that I now know you, and that you will pardon my mistakes my crime."""
19117,"The diddler is not only surprised but vexed and incensed at the absurd behavior of his dog, and expresses his entire readiness to cancel the obligation at any moment when the evidence of the obligation shall be forthcoming."
19118,"The antagonist having taken his seat, the exhibiter approaches the drawer of the box, and takes therefrom the cushion, which, after removing the pipe from the hand of the Automaton, he places under its left arm as a support."
19119,"The figure, almost all of which the construction of the box permitted to be seen, was somewhat above the medium height, and nearly approached, without positively reaching, the majestic."
19120,"""Why do you call to my remembrance,"" I rejoined, ""circumstances of which I shudder to reflect, that I have been the miserable origin and author?"
19121,"Occupying the whole southern face of the pentagon was the sole window an immense sheet of unbroken glass from Venice a single pane, and tinted of a leaden hue, so that the rays of either the sun or moon, passing through it, fell with a ghastly lustre on the objects within."
19122,Burke's Reflections on the French Revolution.
19123,"His fit, nevertheless, finally subsided as before, and he began to act and speak in a rational way."
19124,Was my love blamable?
19125,"My pets, of course, were made to feel the change in my disposition."
19126,"This I have long seen, and therefore had thoughts of making you a lawyer."
19127,You saw the locks in question as well as myself.
19128,We looked at the picture which he presented.
19129,"He shook with inconceivable agitation, and his eye glanced around in search of a gondola."
19130,But now also I began to reap the fruits of my perfect solitude.
19131,"When, at length, we had concluded our examination, and the intense excitement of the time had, in some measure, subsided, Legrand, who saw that I was dying with impatience for a solution of this most extraordinary riddle, entered into a full detail of all the circumstances connected with it."
19132,"Sometimes you may be stung with the feeling that you have wronged me, but the condolence of your relatives, the pity of the world, the complacency which the consciousness of your own immaculate innocence will bestow, will be excellent balm; me you will never see more"" Raymond moved towards the door."
19133,"""What is the meaning of all this, Jup?"" I inquired."
19134,"The soil was barren, scarcely affording pasture for a few miserable cows, and oatmeal for its inhabitants, which consisted of five persons, whose gaunt and scraggy limbs gave tokens of their miserable fare."
19135,"Sometimes she looked at Raymond, as if to say That it should be so At others her countenance expressed I will still do all I can to make you happy."
19136,"Every one remarked her exhilaration of spirits; as all actions appear graceful in the eye of rank, her guests surrounded her applaudingly, although there was a sharpness in her laugh, and an abruptness in her sallies, which might have betrayed her secret to an attentive observer."
19137,"One night as I listened to the discourse in the large square containing many statues, I felt a change; and perceived that I had at last a bodily form."
19138,"For some minutes he remained speechless and motionless, looking incredulously at my friend with open mouth, and eyes that seemed starting from their sockets; then, apparently recovering himself in some measure, he seized a pen, and after several pauses and vacant stares, finally filled up and signed a check for fifty thousand francs, and handed it across the table to Dupin."
19139,"So when I had finished reading I shook my host by the hand, and departed as a friend."
19140,"Ten thousand years ago there stood by its shore the mighty city of Sarnath, but Sarnath stands there no more."
19141,"From what I have already said, you must know that I have had means of information about this matter means of which you could never have dreamed."
19142,"The air of death and desertion was ghoulish, and the smell of fish almost insufferable; but I was resolved to let nothing deter me."
19143,"The thing was done, and I put money in my purse."
19144,"But these principles cannot be extended to the human organization, wherein there is a marked and radical difference in the construction, and, at all events, in the powers, of the right and left arms."
19145,"He wrote to the address given, desiring to see the draughtsman, that such alterations might be made, as should be suggested in a consultation between him and the original conceiver."
19146,"For a long time they had reigned over the city together, but when they had a son all three went away."
19147,The interior of the main compartment is lined throughout with cloth.
19148,"Yes, divinity of the world, I read your characters in her looks and gesture; I heard your melodious voice echoed by her you prepared for us a soft and flowery path, all gentle thoughts adorned it your name, O Love, was not spoken, but you stood the Genius of the Hour, veiled, and time, but no mortal hand, might raise the curtain."
19149,"I asked, ""Does Lady Idris love you?"" ""What a question,"" replied he laughing."
19150,In the meantime every moment threatened to be our last every mountainous billow hurried to overwhelm us.
19151,I had sagacity enough to discover that the unnatural hideousness of my person was the chief object of horror with those who had formerly beheld me.
19152,"Sometimes they appeared to devour one another, the attacker launching itself at its victim and instantaneously obliterating the latter from sight."
19153,Elizabeth alone had the power to draw me from these fits; her gentle voice would soothe me when transported by passion and inspire me with human feelings when sunk in torpor.
19154,"""The old man had, in the meantime, been pensive, but on the appearance of his companions he assumed a more cheerful air, and they sat down to eat."
19155,"He strove to shelter her, as a fair exotic is sheltered by the gardener, from every rougher wind and to surround her with all that could tend to excite pleasurable emotion in her soft and benevolent mind."
19156,This I know to be a fact.
19157,"At length we arrived at the harbour; it was agitated by the outward swell of the sea; the beach, as far could be discerned, was covered by a moving multitude, which, urged by those behind toward the sea, again rushed back as the heavy waves with sullen roar burst close to them."
19158,You perhaps will find some means to justify my poor guiltless Justine.
19159,I think I went mad then.
19160,"Although her disposition was gay and in many respects inconsiderate, yet she paid the greatest attention to every gesture of my aunt."
19161,"The verses, which were entitled ""The Haunted Palace,"" ran very nearly, if not accurately, thus: I."
19162,"I may die, but in death I can never forget or desert my own Clara."
19163,"Farther than this, little could be ascertained."
19164,There was no servant that was a settled point.
19165,"As my authorship increased, I acquired new sympathies and pleasures."
19166,"The shutters had been thrown back, and with a sensation of horror not to be described, I saw at the open window a figure the most hideous and abhorred."
19167,"Altogether, Old Bugs was not pleasing to look upon."
19168,"Although I thus readily accounted to my reason, if not altogether to my conscience, for the startling fact just detailed, it did not the less fail to make a deep impression upon my fancy."
19169,Neither could I forget what I had read of these pits that the sudden extinction of life formed no part of their most horrible plan.
19170,"It had four inch horns, but a face and jaw something like yours and mine."""
19171,This appearance excited our unqualified wonder.
19172,"One player holds in his hand a number of these toys, and demands of another whether that number is even or odd."
19173,"It appears that about a hundred years before Mr. Ellison's coming of age, there had died, in a remote province, one Mr. Seabright Ellison."
19174,But even here there was very little upon which to base a conjecture.
19175,"He would have used this, but for its volution about the corpse, the hitch which embarrassed it, and the reflection that it had not been 'torn off' from the garment."
19176,"Oh, that some encouraging voice would answer in the affirmative My courage and my resolution is firm; but my hopes fluctuate, and my spirits are often depressed."
19177,"To their Excellencies Von Underduk and Rub a dub, President and Vice President of the States' College of Astronomers, in the city of Rotterdam."
19178,"Gilman tried to stop up the rat hole every day, but each night the real tenants of the partitions would gnaw away the obstruction, whatever it might be."
19179,"There was nothing in this, however, to make him sob."
19180,"He is fond of enigmas, of conundrums, of hieroglyphics; exhibiting in his solutions of each a degree of acumen which appears to the ordinary apprehension præternatural."
19181,"The moon could not be seen at all, being nearly in my zenith."
19182,"For a time Mercy could secure no more help, since the seven deaths and case of madness, all occurring within five years' space, had begun to set in motion the body of fireside rumour which later became so bizarre."
19183,"He wrote this in a very ancient hand, and when I still hesitated he pulled from his loose robe a seal ring and a watch, both with my family arms, to prove that he was what he said."
19184,"This time the creaking went along the hall and down the stairs, so I knew that the prowler had realised the bolted condition of my doors and was giving up his attempt for a greater or lesser time, as the future would shew."
19185,"Condescend therefore to have patience with my ignorance, and to explain your wishes to me; in time I am certain that you will be satisfied."""
19186,Interest: Your diddler is guided by self interest.
19187,"Here Mr. Crab again ""made great eyes,"" as we say in Germany, but at length, recovering himself from a profound attack of astonishment, he assured me that he employed the words ""Thomas Hawk"" to avoid the colloquialism, Tommy, which was low but that the true idea was Tommy Hawk or tomahawk and that by ""playing tomahawk"" he referred to scalping, brow beating and otherwise using up the herd of poor devil authors."
19188,"Having rapidly taken notice of all this, I resumed the narrative of Sir Launcelot, which thus proceeded: ""And now, the champion, having escaped from the terrible fury of the dragon, bethinking himself of the brazen shield, and of the breaking up of the enchantment which was upon it, removed the carcass from out of the way before him, and approached valorously over the silver pavement of the castle to where the shield was upon the wall; which in sooth tarried not for his full coming, but feel down at his feet upon the silver floor, with a mighty great and terrible ringing sound."""
19189,You'll never know what the world has escaped.
19190,"It was as though a house, launched by an avalanche, had slid down through the tangled growths of the almost vertical slope."
19191,"It was quite dirty, you remember."
19192,"There was no ship visible, as I had half expected there would be."
19193,"The hand writing itself was exquisitely beautiful; there was something in her very paper and its folds, which even I, who did not love, and was withal unskilled in such matters, could discern as being tasteful."
19194,"It was seen that, even at three per cent., the annual income of the inheritance amounted to no less than thirteen millions and five hundred thousand dollars; which was one million and one hundred and twenty five thousand per month; or thirty six thousand nine hundred and eighty six per day; or one thousand five hundred and forty one per hour; or six and twenty dollars for every minute that flew."
19195,"There have been other ""voyages to the moon,"" but none of higher merit than the one just mentioned."
19196,"Presently a window opens, and somebody pitches you a sixpence, with a request to ""Hush up and go on,"" etc."
19197,"The stowage was clumsily done, and the vessel consequently crank."
19198,"When he came to himself, we addressed ourselves again to an investigation of M. Valdemar's condition."
19199,"Yet it is in your power to recompense me, and deliver them from an evil which it only remains for you to make so great, that not only you and your family, but thousands of others, shall be swallowed up in the whirlwinds of its rage."
19200,"And inside that rusted iron strait jacket lurked gibbering hideousness, perversion, and diabolism."
19201,"For the people of Ulthar were simple, and knew not whence it is all cats first came."
19202,"I replied that I was going to Arkham, and apologised for my rude entry into his domicile, whereupon he continued."
19203,Captain Smitherton says that yesterday was Sunday: so it was; he is right.
19204,"He did every thing I wished, and I found, upon getting up, that I could easily pass my head and neck through the aperture."
19205,"I have sought in vain for sleep and rest; my lids refused to close, and my blood was for ever in a tumult."
19206,"Upon the first discovery of the corpse, it was not supposed that the murderer would be able to elude, for more than a very brief period, the inquisition which was immediately set on foot."
19207,"There in the moonlight that flooded the spacious plain was a spectacle which no mortal, having seen it, could ever forget."
19208,I determined to hazard a few words of conversation.
19209,The body was quite warm.
19210,"When my father returned from Milan, he found playing with me in the hall of our villa a child fairer than pictured cherub a creature who seemed to shed radiance from her looks and whose form and motions were lighter than the chamois of the hills."
19211,"Turning to the passage specified, he read it with great care to himself, then closed the book, and desired me, in my character of confidential acquaintance, to express to the Baron von Jung his exalted sense of his chivalrous behavior, and, in that of second, to assure him that the explanation offered was of the fullest, the most honorable, and the most unequivocally satisfactory nature."
19212,"All these things, however, the Elder Ones only may decide; and meanwhile the morning mist still comes up by that lonely vertiginous peak with the steep ancient house, that grey low eaved house where none is seen but where evening brings furtive lights while the north wind tells of strange revels."
19213,"As we rode up to the gate way, I perceived it slightly open, and the visage of a man peering through."
19214,"Perdita, even where she loved, was reserved and timid; Idris was frank and confiding."
19215,"As I arose from the attempt, the mystery of the alteration in the chamber broke at once upon my understanding."
19216,How had I deserved to be so blessed by such confessions?
19217,"Perdita, shut up in herself, spoke little."
19218,"I quickly destroyed part of my sledge to construct oars, and by these means was enabled, with infinite fatigue, to move my ice raft in the direction of your ship."
19219,"But, then, the radicalness of these differences, which was excessive; the dirt; the soiled and torn condition of the paper, so inconsistent with the true methodical habits of D , and so suggestive of a design to delude the beholder into an idea of the worthlessness of the document; these things, together with the hyper obtrusive situation of this document, full in the view of every visiter, and thus exactly in accordance with the conclusions to which I had previously arrived; these things, I say, were strongly corroborative of suspicion, in one who came with the intention to suspect."
19220,"The high and snowy mountains were its immediate boundaries, but I saw no more ruined castles and fertile fields."
19221,A moment later came the titanic thunderbolt of thunderbolts; blasting that accursed house of unutterable secrets and bringing the oblivion which alone saved my mind.
19222,So I will carefully don my diving suit and walk boldly up the steps into that primal shrine; that silent secret of unfathomed waters and uncounted years.
19223,"I had been accustomed, during the night, to steal a part of their store for my own consumption, but when I found that in doing this I inflicted pain on the cottagers, I abstained and satisfied myself with berries, nuts, and roots which I gathered from a neighbouring wood."
19224,Men toiled at the grave in which I lay darkling.
19225,"Later, I thought, they might aid me; but I did not want them then."
19226,"It is certainly best not to compromise oneself by any concealment."""
19227,"To our right the Acropolis rose high, spectatress of a thousand changes, of ancient glory, Turkish slavery, and the restoration of dear bought liberty; tombs and cenotaphs were strewed thick around, adorned by ever renewing vegetation; the mighty dead hovered over their monuments, and beheld in our enthusiasm and congregated numbers a renewal of the scenes in which they had been the actors."
19228,"During her last struggle he felt something bite at his ankle, and saw that Brown Jenkin had come to her aid."
19229,He ees too seeck for doctair heemself seecker and seecker all the time but he weel not have no othair for help.
19230,The arms altogether were admirably modelled.
19231,I was not so sanguine as she as to the result of our voyage.
19232,"This gentlemen had amassed a princely fortune, and, having no very immediate connexions, conceived the whim of suffering his wealth to accumulate for a century after his decease."
19233,"There was some peculiarly abominable quality about them which made their destruction seem almost a duty, and Johansen shews ingenuous wonder at the charge of ruthlessness brought against his party during the proceedings of the court of inquiry."
19234,"Mounting a chair, he attached one end of the rope to a hook in the great exposed central beam of black oak, and began making a noose with the other end."
19235,"The baying was very faint now, and it ceased altogether as I approached the ancient grave I had once violated, and frightened away an abnormally large horde of bats which had been hovering curiously around it."
19236,"Thus situated, employed in the most detestable occupation, immersed in a solitude where nothing could for an instant call my attention from the actual scene in which I was engaged, my spirits became unequal; I grew restless and nervous."
19237,"I was new to sorrow, but it did not the less alarm me."
19238,"It was clear to me that the letter had been turned, as a glove, inside out, re directed, and re sealed."
19239,My balloon was soon completed.
19240,"Nevertheless is he confirmed in his instinctive opinions, by the concurrence of all his compeers."
19241,"The day was pleasant, but even in the brightest sunlight a kind of quiet dread and portent seemed to hover about the strangely domed hills and the deep, shadowy ravines of the stricken region."
19242,"I had been looking steadily at the top of this hogshead for some minutes, and what now caused me surprise was the fact that I had not sooner perceived the object thereupon."
19243,"Scoffing devil Again do I vow vengeance; again do I devote thee, miserable fiend, to torture and death."
19244,"Having gone as far as possible in this direction, a sudden turn was made to the left, and the vehicle was driven at right angles to its former course, and still closely along the edge of the table."
19245,It is needless to say that a very short time sufficed us to lose sight of the coast.
19246,"I shall ask him when I see him, for I expect to meet him shortly in a certain dream city we both used to haunt."
19247,"I imagined that they would be disgusted, until, by my gentle demeanour and conciliating words, I should first win their favour and afterwards their love."
19248,"Past, present, future, all are one in Yog Sothoth."
19249,He then bowed and departed.
19250,"I pictured to myself a lovely river such as that on whose banks Dante describes Mathilda gathering flowers, which ever flows bruna, bruna, Sotto l'ombra perpetua, che mai Raggiar non lascia sole ivi, ne Luna."
19251,"These were wild and miserable thoughts, but I cannot describe to you how the eternal twinkling of the stars weighed upon me and how I listened to every blast of wind as if it were a dull ugly siroc on its way to consume me."
19252,"Policemen appeared at the door, attracted by the noise, but for a time they made no move to intervene."
19253,"The plague is in London; the air of England is tainted, and her sons and daughters strew the unwholesome earth."
19254,"One morning at breakfast I came close to disaster by declaiming in palpably liquorish accents an effusion of eighteenth century Bacchanalian mirth; a bit of Georgian playfulness never recorded in a book, which ran something like this: Come hither, my lads, with your tankards of ale, And drink to the present before it shall fail; Pile each on your platter a mountain of beef, For 'tis eating and drinking that bring us relief: So fill up your glass, For life will soon pass; When you're dead ye'll ne'er drink to your king or your lass Anacreon had a red nose, so they say; But what's a red nose if ye're happy and gay?"
19255,"Astounding News by Express, via Norfolk The Atlantic crossed in Three Days Signal Triumph of Mr. Monck Mason's Flying Machine Arrival at Sullivan's Island, near Charlestown, S.C., of Mr. Mason, Mr. Robert Holland, Mr. Henson, Mr. Harrison Ainsworth, and four others, in the Steering Balloon, ""Victoria,"" after a passage of Seventy five Hours from Land to Land Full Particulars of the Voyage The subjoined jeu d'esprit with the preceding heading in magnificent capitals, well interspersed with notes of admiration, was originally published, as matter of fact, in the ""New York Sun,"" a daily newspaper, and therein fully subserved the purpose of creating indigestible aliment for the quidnuncs during the few hours intervening between a couple of the Charleston mails."
19256,"In the later dreams he began to distinguish separate categories into which the organic objects appeared to be divided, and which seemed to involve in each case a radically different species of conduct pattern and basic motivation."
19257,"That is the Orontes, and it is the only water in sight, with the exception of the Mediterranean, which stretches, like a broad mirror, about twelve miles off to the southward."
19258,"This derivative, to say the truth, is still countenanced by some traces of the electric fluid evident on the summit of the steeple of the House of the Town Council."
19259,"We perceived the effect of this manoeuvre immediately, in a vastly increased rate of progress; and, as the gale freshened, we flew with a velocity nearly inconceivable; the guide rope flying out behind the car, like a streamer from a vessel."
19260,"""Wonderful genius"" said the Quarterly."
19261,"He bowed as I presented it; then, with a grave countenance, motioned me to a seat."
19262,"But when questioned, Slater relapsed into the habitual vacancy of the mountaineer, and only reiterated what he had said on the preceding day."
19263,I can scarcely say why.
19264,"The bodies of fat and fleshy persons, with small bones, and of women generally, are lighter than those of the lean and large boned, and of men; and the specific gravity of the water of a river is somewhat influenced by the presence of the tide from sea."
19265,"These were the words upon whose mystical meaning I had so long pondered, rejecting the explanations of the priesthood, until Death himself resolved for me the secret."
19266,"Could they thrust back from the path of distinction and laudable ambition, the heir of their ancient kings, and heap another disappointment on a fallen house."
19267,"My immediate purpose is to lead you to place in juxtaposition, that very unusual activity of which I have just spoken with that very peculiar shrill or harsh and unequal voice, about whose nationality no two persons could be found to agree, and in whose utterance no syllabification could be detected."""
19268,"As the men of Sarnath beheld more of the beings of Ib their hate grew, and it was not less because they found the beings weak, and soft as jelly to the touch of stones and spears and arrows."
19269,"It came, apparently, from the barn; and was quickly followed by a hideous screaming and stamping amongst the cattle."
19270,My own impressions I would not pretend to render intelligible to the reader.
19271,"In another instant I was knocked from my gruesome bench by the devilish threshing of some unseen entity of titanic size but undetermined nature; knocked sprawling on the root clutched mould of that abhorrent graveyard, while from the tomb came such a stifled uproar of gasping and whirring that my fancy peopled the rayless gloom with Miltonic legions of the misshapen damned."
19272,"In this year the servant Mehitabel died, and the other servant, Preserved Smith, left without coherent explanation or at least, with only some wild tales and a complaint that he disliked the smell of the place."
19273,"""I now replaced the nail and regarded it attentively."
19274,"You will find him at Dunkeld; gentle and tractable he wanders up the hills, and through the wood, or sits listening beside the waterfall."
19275,You know it's always ben a kind of mystery where the Marshes get the gold they refine.
19276,"Cotton Mather, in that daemoniac sixth book which no one should read after dark, minced no words as he flung forth his anathema."
19277,In Death we have both learned the propensity of man to define the indefinable.
19278,"I soon found him of weak intellect, and, of course, marked him as a fitting subject for my skill."
19279,We are below the river's bed.
19280,"In winter it would be in the east, but mostly if in the small hours of morning."
19281,"And in the direction or concentration of this effort or, more properly, in its adaptation to the eyes which were to behold it on earth he perceived that he should be employing the best means laboring to the greatest advantage in the fulfilment, not only of his own destiny as poet, but of the august purposes for which the Deity had implanted the poetic sentiment in man."
19282,Alas to what loathsome shifts must I be driven?
19283,"Interruptions are annoying and should undoubtedly be abolished don't you think so? no reply, I beg you, one person is enough to be speaking at a time."
19284,"After Barry had told me these things I was very drowsy, for the travels of the day had been wearying and my host had talked late into the night."
19285,"""Do not deceive yourself,"" replied Raymond, ""the separation at hand is one over which I have no control; most near at hand is it; the days are already counted."
19286,"When we flatter ourselves that we have formed its conception, we have merely deceived our understanding by the consideration of infinitely rarified matter."
19287,"It was also evident that, by exertion of a very unusual degree of activity and courage, an entrance into the window, from the rod, might have been thus effected."
19288,His friends remembered him as a brilliant vision which would never again return to them.
19289,"Any mechanical arrangement which would cause the figure to move, in any given manner, the left arm could, if reversed, cause it to move, in the same manner, the right."
19290,"I never saw any woman who excited, as Elizabeth does, my warmest admiration and affection."
19291,"Something told him that it was not its real evils that lay heavily at her heart, but the debasement and disgrace attendant on it; as he talked, he divested it of these; sometimes speaking of her fortitude with energetic praise; then, alluding to her past state, he called her his Princess in disguise."
19292,One evening a numerous assembly of Greek chieftains were gathered together in the palace.
19293,"He was alone, examining some petitions lately presented."
19294,"I am practically industrious painstaking, a workman to execute with perseverance and labour but besides this there is a love for the marvellous, a belief in the marvellous, intertwined in all my projects, which hurries me out of the common pathways of men, even to the wild sea and unvisited regions I am about to explore."
19295,"On June , Seamen Bohm and Schmidt, who had been ill the day before, became violently insane."
19296,"But now, he who dies finds many companions gone before to prepare for his reception."
19297,He meditated on what was best to be done.
19298,Maybe the Innsmouth folks like 'em to look at themselves Gawd knows they've gotten to be about as bad as South Sea cannibals and Guinea savages.
19299,"For what really occurred, however, it is quite impossible that any human being could have been prepared."
19300,"There then in that castle in Windsor Castle, birth place of Idris and my babes, should be the haven and retreat for the wrecked bark of human society."
19301,"But you forget that the matter of which I speak is, in all respects, the very ""mind"" or ""spirit"" of the schools, so far as regards its high capacities, and is, moreover, the ""matter"" of these schools at the same time."
19302,"Told abaout an island east of Otaheité whar they was a lot o' stone ruins older'n anybody knew anything abaout, kind o' like them on Ponape, in the Carolines, but with carvin's of faces that looked like the big statues on Easter Island."
19303,"It required all her self command, to suppress the gush of tears self pity caused at this idea."
19304,Soon after this he inquired if I thought that the breaking up of the ice had destroyed the other sledge.
19305,"""D , I presume, is not altogether a fool, and, if not, must have anticipated these waylayings, as a matter of course."""
19306,"""Name it, my beloved, my Eugenie, my own name it but, alas it is already yielded ere named."""
19307,"That the plague was not what is commonly called contagious, like the scarlet fever, or extinct small pox, was proved."
19308,"If there is a chasm our mutual love will give us wings to pass it, and we shall find flowers, and verdure, and delight on the other side."""
19309,The Prefect was fond of the cant of diplomacy.
19310,"I am convinced, that had the myriad troops of Asia come from over the Propontis, and stood defenders of the Golden City, each and every Greek would have marched against the overwhelming numbers, and have devoted himself with patriotic fury for his country."
19311,"That night the wanderers left Ulthar, and were never seen again."
19312,"But I am ambitious of signalizing my abdication of the literary sceptre by some important bequest to posterity; and, perhaps, I cannot do a better thing than just pen for it an account of my earlier career."
19313,"""I have copies of these letters, for I found means, during my residence in the hovel, to procure the implements of writing; and the letters were often in the hands of Felix or Agatha."
19314,I eagerly seized the prize and returned with it to my hovel.
19315,"So, too, as we sailed the next day away from Holland to our home, we thought we heard the faint distant baying of some gigantic hound in the background."
19316,"This path was excessively sinuous, and as the sun could not be seen, I soon lost all idea of the direction in which I journeyed."
19317,What I wrote it is unnecessary to say.
19318,I will hover near and direct the steel aright.
19319,"This was unreasonable, and I told him so in a speech of some length."
19320,"It was about five months after this return home, that her friends were alarmed by her sudden disappearance for the second time."
19321,"They had all kinds o' cities on the sea bottom, an' this island was heaved up from thar."
19322,"In this progress, I took notice that no sight of the out houses could be obtained."
19323,"And the lips of the dead lotos faces whispered sadly, and bade me follow, nor did I cease my steps till the stream became a river, and joined amidst marshes of swaying reeds and beaches of gleaming sand the shore of a vast and nameless sea."
19324,"Clara, though only twelve years old, was rendered, through extreme sensibility, so prudent and careful, that I felt secure in entrusting the charge of him to her, and it was my task to prevent Idris from observing their absence."
19325,Spoke to day the magnetic cutter in charge of the middle section of floating telegraph wires.
19326,"I am not now writing a treatise, but simply prefacing a somewhat peculiar narrative by observations very much at random; I will, therefore, take occasion to assert that the higher powers of the reflective intellect are more decidedly and more usefully tasked by the unostentatious game of draughts than by all the elaborate frivolity of chess."
19327,"Raymond had never visited the dwellings of want, and the scene that now presented itself struck him to the heart."
19328,"The sentence in question has but one meaning, as it stands; and this meaning I have fairly stated: but it is material that we go behind the mere words, for an idea which these words have obviously intended, and failed to convey."
19329,"You have hope, and the world before you, and have no cause for despair."
19330,"To clear my ideas on this topic I felt in my pocket for my snuff box, but, upon getting it, and endeavoring to apply a pinch of its grateful contents in the ordinary manner, I became immediately aware of my peculiar deficiency, and threw the box at once down to my head."
19331,"There, Margaret, the sun is forever visible, its broad disk just skirting the horizon and diffusing a perpetual splendour."
19332,I forced the last stone into its position; I plastered it up.
19333,Whether I believe them now I honestly do not know.
19334,"It was suspected that the Turks, finding themselves possessed of so illustrious a captive, resolved to satisfy their cruelty rather than their avarice, and fearful of the interference of England, had come to the determination of concealing for ever the cold blooded murder of the soldier they most hated and feared in the squadrons of their enemy."
19335,"Cast away the hearts of tigers that burn in your breasts; throw down those tools of cruelty and hate; in this pause of exterminating destiny, let each man be brother, guardian, and stay to the other."
19336,"From the latter from the data the second step of the question, dependent thereupon, inevitably follows."
19337,"The interior of the figure, as seen through these apertures, appears to be crowded with machinery."
19338,"Oh believe me, if you beheld on lips pale with grief one smile of joy and gratitude, and knew that you were parent of that smile, and that without you it had never been, you would feel so pure and warm a happiness that you would wish to live for ever again and again to enjoy the same pleasure."
19339,First of all I dismembered the corpse.
19340,"But he steadied me with that terrible, ice cold claw, and once more made his insidious gesture."
19341,"No one, even those who have the facts concerning the recent horror, can say just what is the matter with Dunwich; though old legends speak of unhallowed rites and conclaves of the Indians, amidst which they called forbidden shapes of shadow out of the great rounded hills, and made wild orgiastic prayers that were answered by loud crackings and rumblings from the ground below."
19342,"Despite my most careful searches and investigations, I have never since been able to find the Rue d'Auseil."
19343,"This person introduced, or at all events propagated what was termed the deductive or a priori mode of investigation."
19344,"Suddenly there shot along the path a wild light, and I turned to see whence a gleam so unusual could have issued; for the vast house and its shadows were alone behind me."
19345,"Then the trees thinned, and far below him on his right he saw the hills and antique roofs and spires of Kingsport."
19346,"Let them prosecute and persecute above ground things went on every day that they couldn't reach, and voices laughed at night that they couldn't place ""Why, man, out of ten surviving houses built before and not moved since I'll wager that in eight I can shew you something queer in the cellar."
19347,But the looked for terror did not appear.
19348,"Business is business, and should be done in a business way."
19349,"You will observe that, for this reason, the mystery has been considered easy, when, for this reason, it should have been considered difficult, of solution."
19350,"It was said that the swart men who dwelt in The Street and congregated in its rotting edifices were the brains of a hideous revolution; that at their word of command many millions of brainless, besotted beasts would stretch forth their noisome talons from the slums of a thousand cities, burning, slaying, and destroying till the land of our fathers should be no more."
19351,"""One word more concerning unkind, unjust Perdita."
19352,"Little could be got from the survivors; but their cautious answers caused it to be surmised that several expeditions had preceded this last, and that several Turks of rank and importance had been conveyed to Asia."
19353,I revolved a thousand and a thousand plans.
19354,"Besides, upon the back of the trinket you may discover, perhaps, the very information you seem to desire."
19355,"What indeed could he reply to her complaints, to her griefs which she jealously paled round, keeping out all thought of remedy."
19356,"There was an epoch in the course of the general sentiment when the comet had attained, at length, a size surpassing that of any previously recorded visitation."
19357,"A light birch canoe that lay placidly on the water, was reflected in its minutest fibres with a fidelity unsurpassed by the most exquisitely polished mirror."
19358,"My fortunes have been, from the beginning, an exemplification of the power that mutability may possess over the varied tenor of man's life."
19359,"If he were vanquished, I should be a free man."
19360,Now the thing stands thus.
19361,"We entered, and as we did so I grew faint from a reek of infinite mustiness which welled out to meet us, and which must have been the fruit of unwholesome centuries of decay."
19362,"""Thar's whar it all begun that cursed place of all wickedness whar the deep water starts."
19363,I felt myself on the edge of the world; peering over the rim into a fathomless chaos of eternal night.
19364,"I sat by his bed, watching him; his eyes were closed, and I thought he slept; but presently he called to me in a feeble voice, and bidding me come near, said, ""Alas The strength I relied on is gone; I feel that I shall soon die, and he, my enemy and persecutor, may still be in being."
19365,"The boy was not talkative, yet when he spoke he seemed to reflect some elusive element wholly unpossessed by Dunwich and its denizens."
19366,"We visited the wondrous cave and the little cabinets of natural history, where the curiosities are disposed in the same manner as in the collections at Servox and Chamounix."
19367,The room in which I found myself was very large and lofty.
19368,"But how are we to judge of airs, and pronounce in such a city plague will die unproductive; in such another, nature has provided for it a plentiful harvest?"
19369,"Overjoyed at this discovery, he hastened to the house, which was situated in a mean street near the Reuss."
19370,"Looking about me, I beheld many marble slabs bearing coffins, or the remains of coffins."
19371,"I says I didn't do no pryin' arter that night but I faound things aout jest the same ""Yew want to know what the reel horror is, hey?"
19372,"If he dies with me it is well, and there will be an end of two miserable beings; and if he will not, then will I scoff at his friendship and drink the poison before him to shame his cowardice."
19373,One word more on this topic and I will be done boring you.
19374,"Even the source of colonies was dried up, for in New Holland, Van Diemen's Land, and the Cape of Good Hope, plague raged."
19375,"So blended bank and shadow there That each seemed pendulous in air so mirror like was the glassy water, that it was scarcely possible to say at what point upon the slope of the emerald turf its crystal dominion began."
19376,"The arms stirred disquietingly, the legs drew up, and various muscles contracted in a repulsive kind of writhing."
19377,"That suggestive patch, by the way, was only faintly visible when we placed our furniture and instruments, and when we returned that evening for the actual vigil."
19378,"Heavy misfortunes have befallen us, but let us only cling closer to what remains and transfer our love for those whom we have lost to those who yet live."
19379,Few Italians have the true virtuoso spirit.
19380,He entered attentively into all my arguments in favour of my eventual success and into every minute detail of the measures I had taken to secure it.
19381,"Sometimes one feels that it would be merciful to tear down these houses, for they must often dream."
19382,"She never complained, but sleep and appetite fled from her, a slow fever preyed on her veins, her colour was hectic, and she often wept in secret; gloomy prognostications, care, and agonizing dread, ate up the principle of life within her."
19383,"It occasionally happens, however, that the concerto yells are succeeded by a simultaneous effort at breaking loose, when, of course, some little danger is to be apprehended."""
19384,I can shew you houses that have stood two centuries and a half and more; houses that have witnessed what would make a modern house crumble into powder.
19385,"Her small, bare, and silvery feet gleamed in the black mirror of marble beneath her."
19386,That the body was found without weight is also corroborative of the idea.
19387,"Besides, there were two voices heard in contention, and one of them was unquestionably the voice of a Frenchman."""
19388,"These latter did not extend to the floor, but were much longer and narrower than usual they had single shutters like doors the panes were of lozenge form, but quite large."
19389,"I positively felt a wish to explore its depths, even at the sacrifice I was going to make; and my principal grief was that I should never be able to tell my old companions on shore about the mysteries I should see."
19390,With that thought I rolled my eves nervously around on the barriers of iron that hemmed me in.
19391,It was not like the very old folk to spare their victims at the Sabbath.
19392,"From the side where I now stood Montanvert was exactly opposite, at the distance of a league; and above it rose Mont Blanc, in awful majesty."
19393,"I had lived in what is generally called the world of reality, and it was awakening to a new country to find that there was a deeper meaning in all I saw, besides that which my eyes conveyed to me."
19394,"More than ever Kuranes wished to sail in a galley to the far places of which he had heard so many strange tales, and he sought again the captain who had agreed to carry him so long ago."
19395,"I fear you have mesmerized"" adding immediately afterwards, ""deferred it too long."""
19396,I have traversed a vast portion of the earth and have endured all the hardships which travellers in deserts and barbarous countries are wont to meet.
19397,"Yet, even then, I have checked thick coming fears with one thought; I would not fear death, for the emotions that linked us must be immortal."
19398,"An unnatural excess of oxygen would result, it had been ascertained in just such an elevation of the animal spirits as we had latterly experienced."
19399,"But I was sorely put out by the absence of all else of the body to my imagined instrument of the text for my context."""
19400,"I, the elder of the two, was five years old when my mother died."
19401,"By the learned in what might be termed theological morality they will be readily conceived, and by the unlearned they would, at all events, be little understood."
19402,She was a Roman Catholic; and I believe her confessor confirmed the idea which she had conceived.
19403,"May God grant that we succeed I ask not success for mere safety to my insignificant person, but for the sake of human knowledge and for the vastness of the triumph."
19404,"""These thoughts exhilarated me and led me to apply with fresh ardour to the acquiring the art of language."
19405,"But memory never died, and high priests said that the city would rise again when the stars were right."
19406,"In short, we are madly erring, through self esteem, in believing man, in either his temporal or future destinies, to be of more moment in the universe than that vast ""clod of the valley"" which he tills and contemns, and to which he denies a soul for no more profound reason than that he does not behold it in operation."
19407,"Professor Angell's instant start on an investigation of the utmost thoroughness was eminently natural; though privately I suspected young Wilcox of having heard of the cult in some indirect way, and of having invented a series of dreams to heighten and continue the mystery at my uncle's expense."
19408,"""What d'ye think o' this ain't never see the like hereabouts, eh?"
19409,The native modesty of his disposition conquered the joy of his triumph.
19410,"Penniless, and at the end of my supply of the drug which alone makes life endurable, I can bear the torture no longer; and shall cast myself from this garret window into the squalid street below."
19411,"We then conversed on the plan I should pursue, and discussed the probable means of discovering his residence."
19412,"Of late years however, an anonymous writer, by a course of reasoning exceedingly unphilosophical, has contrived to blunder upon a plausible solution although we cannot consider it altogether the true one."
19413,But I need not vex you with impertinent details.
19414,I adopted another plan.
19415,"She had been reserved and even stern in childhood; but love had softened the asperities of her character, and her union with Raymond had caused her talents and affections to unfold themselves; the one betrayed, and the other lost, she in some degree returned to her ancient disposition."
19416,"They had devoured, in spite of all my efforts to prevent them, all but a small remnant of the contents of the dish."
19417,"After he had secured my reluctant acquiescence in his design, Warren picked up the reel of wire and adjusted the instruments."
19418,Still Talbot would not return.
19419,The plague is now in progress it is useless closing one's eyes to the fact the deaths encrease each week.
19420,"My head ached, and I fancied a ringing in my ears: but still they sat and still chatted."
19421,"Various and eventful, however, had been the peregrinations of the worthy couple in and about the different tap houses of the neighbourhood during the earlier hours of the night."
19422,"They endeavoured to picture forth what would then happen, and spoke in lofty terms of the prosperity of Greece, when Constantinople should become its capital."
19423,"Next year I may be dwelling in the dark Egypt which you call ancient, or in the cruel empire of Tsan Chan which is to come three thousand years hence."
19424,"""I take it for granted that she is not particularly not dangerously affected, eh?"" ""Mon dieu what is it you imagine?"
19425,"His lips and cheeks were fuzzy with a coarse dark down, and his voice had begun to break."
19426,"Margaret, what comment can I make on the untimely extinction of this glorious spirit?"
19427,"Then we had the 'Confessions of an Opium eater' fine, very fine glorious imagination deep philosophy acute speculation plenty of fire and fury, and a good spicing of the decidedly unintelligible."
19428,"As I hung back, the old man produced his stylus and tablet and wrote that he was the true deputy of my fathers who had founded the Yule worship in this ancient place; that it had been decreed I should come back, and that the most secret mysteries were yet to be performed."
19429,"I say ""at will;"" for the question is of will, and not, as the insanity of logic has assumed, of power."
19430,"WHATEVER doubt may still envelop the rationale of mesmerism, its startling facts are now almost universally admitted."
19431,"The old woman shuddered, she contrived at length to sit upright; but her teeth chattered, and her knees knocked together close, very close, lay a half naked figure, just discernible in the gloom, and the cry for water and the stifled moan were again uttered."
19432,"His discourse was addressed to myself; but his voice, although by no means loud, had that intonation which is commonly employed in speaking to some one at a great distance."
19433,"His frightened horse had gone home, but his frightened wits never quite did that."
19434,"He was then seemingly dead; but he sat nearly erect within his coffin, the lid of which, in his furious struggles, he had partially uplifted."
19435,"Then the lids opened, shewing eyes which were grey, calm, and alive, but still unintelligent and not even curious."
19436,"As her strength grew less, I lifted her from the ground; her emaciated form hung over my arm, her sunken cheek rested on my breast; in a sepulchral voice she murmured: ""This is the end of love Yet not the end"" and frenzy lent her strength as she cast her arm up to heaven: ""there is the end there we meet again."
19437,"We were, as we believed, many hundred miles from any land; but this apparition seemed to denote that it was not, in reality, so distant as we had supposed."
19438,The next day I ascended to the conning tower and commenced the customary searchlight explorations.
19439,What I saw or fancied I saw was a disturbing suggestion of undulant motion far to the south; a suggestion which made me conclude that a very large horde must be pouring out of the city along the level Ipswich road.
19440,Of old navies used to stem the giant ocean waves betwixt Indus and the Pole for slight articles of luxury.
19441,"In going out, she gave notice to a Monsieur Jacques St. Eustache, and to him only, of her intent intention to spend the day with an aunt who resided in the Rue des Drômes."
19442,"A poverty but little above the level of dire want, together with a pride of name that forbids its alleviation by the pursuits of commercial life, have prevented the scions of our line from maintaining their estates in pristine splendour; and the falling stones of the walls, the overgrown vegetation in the parks, the dry and dusty moat, the ill paved courtyards, and toppling towers without, as well as the sagging floors, the worm eaten wainscots, and the faded tapestries within, all tell a gloomy tale of fallen grandeur."
19443,He spoke of the flame eyed Crusader who learnt wild secrets of the Saracens that held him captive; and of the first Sir Randolph Carter who studied magic when Elizabeth was queen.
19444,"I do not know that the relation of my disasters will be useful to you; yet, when I reflect that you are pursuing the same course, exposing yourself to the same dangers which have rendered me what I am, I imagine that you may deduce an apt moral from my tale, one that may direct you if you succeed in your undertaking and console you in case of failure."
19445,Raymond had joined in the former part of the discussion.
19446,"I read of men concerned in public affairs, governing or massacring their species."
19447,"We may guess that in dreams life, matter, and vitality, as the earth knows such things, are not necessarily constant; and that time and space do not exist as our waking selves comprehend them."
19448,The disturbances were the preparations for his subsequently conceived deathful condition.
19449,"The nightmare was quick to come; for as I entered, there occurred immediately one of the most terrifying demonstrations I had ever conceived."
19450,"His voice, usually gentle, often startled you by a sharp discordant note, which shewed that his usual low tone was rather the work of study than nature."
19451,"""The name of the old man was De Lacey."
19452,"For many hours the immediate vicinity of the low framework upon which I lay, had been literally swarming with rats."
19453,"Come, Mister Randy, or Hannah wun't keep supper no longer"" So Randolph Carter was marched up the road where wondering stars glimmered through high autumn boughs."
19454,"""I have sinned c'est vrai but, my good sir, consider you have no actual intention of putting such such barbarous threats into execution."""
19455,"Now here, I conceive, is a positive paradox."
19456,"Pompey arose, and said no word."
19457,You mos not trink it so strong you mos put te water in te wine.
19458,"By degrees the calm and heavenly scene restored me, and I continued my journey towards Geneva."
19459,"Rushing to the corpse, I saw distinctly saw a tremor upon the lips."
19460,"He lost no time in endeavouring to seek him out, with the hope of persuading him to begin the world again through his credit and assistance."
19461,"It was from my own Elizabeth: ""My dearest Cousin, ""You have been ill, very ill, and even the constant letters of dear kind Henry are not sufficient to reassure me on your account."
19462,"Friendship, hand in hand with admiration, tenderness and respect, built a bower of delight in my heart, late rough as an untrod wild in America, as the homeless wind or herbless sea."
19463,"In this excursion I was attended by one negro servant, Pompey, and my little lap dog Diana, whom I had brought with me from Philadelphia."
19464,"He said he had risen up out of the blackness of twenty seven centuries, and that he had heard messages from places not on this planet."
19465,"""There is another point at which there seems a deficiency of observation on the part of Le Commerciel."
19466,"I may be absent a month or two; but do not interfere with my motions, I entreat you; leave me to peace and solitude for a short time; and when I return, I hope it will be with a lighter heart, more congenial to your own temper."""
19467,"Why should he seek to avenge the death of poor Michel Mauvais, and how had the curse been carried on through all the long centuries since the time of Charles Le Sorcier?"
19468,My heart no longer beat wildly; I did not feel any fever: but I was chilled; my knees sunk under me I almost slept as I walked with excess of weariness; every limb trembled.
19469,I followed the windings of this pass with much interest.
19470,I was more agile than they and could subsist upon coarser diet; I bore the extremes of heat and cold with less injury to my frame; my stature far exceeded theirs.
19471,"The pretended lunatic was a man in my own pay."""
19472,And them men them can't be niggers they dew beat all.
19473,"However this might be, the haughty Countess entrusted none with the secrets of her family tuition."
19474,"This was said in a low, fluctuating tone, and with every sign of the most profound veneration."
19475,"Never could they realise that their brute foundations were as shifting and contradictory as the gods of their elders, and that the satisfaction of one moment is the bane of the next."
19476,"Twice again it swung, and a sharp sense of pain shot through every nerve."
19477,"I heard them in my youth from the lips of a playmate, a beggar's boy given to strange dreams, who would weave long tales about the moon and the flowers and the west wind."
19478,"D rushed to a casement, threw it open, and looked out."
19479,"West and I were almost dead, and Dr. Halsey did die on the th."
19480,"His stature was gaunt and tall, and Legs was confounded to behold in him a figure more emaciated than himself."
19481,"Communication had been to a great degree cut off through the paralyzing effects of pestilence, so that the van of our invaders had proceeded as far as Manchester and Derby, before we received notice of their arrival."
19482,I had imposed a law of silence on myself; and for months I have kept it.
19483,"It was partly human, beyond a doubt, with very man like hands and head, and the goatish, chinless face had the stamp of the Whateleys upon it."
19484,"All this done, and your diddler grins."
19485,"When I found so astonishing a power placed within my hands, I hesitated a long time concerning the manner in which I should employ it."
19486,"How long it might require to evoke and extinguish the thing, we had no notion."
19487,"There was not, I soon decided, any reason why I should have felt that shuddering touch of evil pseudo memory."
19488,"It was not easy to find a good opening for two doctors in company, but finally the influence of the university secured us a practice in Bolton a factory town near Arkham, the seat of the college."
19489,"Say don't you think so? perfect despera a ado great pity, 'pon my honor wonderfully inventive age pro o odigies of valor By the by, did you ever hear about Captain Ma a a a n?"" ""Captain Mann be d d"" said I; ""please to go on with your story."""
19490,"The villagers had shunned the car and the driver from the north, but had whispered to me with pale faces when they saw I was going to Kilderry."
19491,"I stand here, it would seem, an elected king; this hand is about to grasp a sceptre; these brows feel in each nerve the coming diadem."
19492,"A burning thirst consumed me, and I emptied the vessel at a draught."
19493,"Yet some feelings, unallied to the dross of human nature, beat even in these rugged bosoms."
19494,"I first became acquainted with him on board a whale vessel; finding that he was unemployed in this city, I easily engaged him to assist in my enterprise."
19495,"But it is preposterous to descant upon such absurdity although 'Oppodeldoc,' whoever he is, has the unparalleled effrontery to suppose that we will not only 'insert' his ignorant ravings, but absolutely pay for them ""Now this is fine it is rich and we have half a mind to punish this young scribbler for his egotism, by really publishing his effusion, verbatim et literatim, as he has written it."
19496,It was with these feelings that I began the creation of a human being.
19497,"My journey had been my own suggestion, and Elizabeth therefore acquiesced, but she was filled with disquiet at the idea of my suffering, away from her, the inroads of misery and grief."
19498,"Love for you invested the world for me in enchanted light; it was no longer the earth I trod the earth, common mother, yielding only trite and stale repetition of objects and circumstances old and worn out."
19499,"At length, for the third or fourth time, they descended into the cellar."
19500,"I called aloud for him through the darkness of night, over the scorching ruins of fallen Constantinople, his name was heard; no voice replied echo even was mute."
19501,"For my contact with this affair has been closer than that of any other layman, and I have carried away impressions which are yet to drive me to drastic measures."
19502,"But in this mortal life extremes are always matched; the thorn grows with the rose, the poison tree and the cinnamon mingle their boughs."
19503,"If, in addition to the point of general size and contour, he had found upon the arm a peculiar hairy appearance which he had observed upon the living Marie, his opinion might have been justly strengthened; and the increase of positiveness might well have been in the ratio of the peculiarity, or unusualness, of the hairy mark."
19504,"This prison like rampart formed the limit of our domain; beyond it we saw but thrice a week once every Saturday afternoon, when, attended by two ushers, we were permitted to take brief walks in a body through some of the neighbouring fields and twice during Sunday, when we were paraded in the same formal manner to the morning and evening service in the one church of the village."
19505,You never saw a more brilliant metallic lustre than the scales emit but of this you cannot judge till tomorrow.
19506,"Accordingly, a few months after your departure for Ingolstadt, Justine was called home by her repentant mother."
19507,"Credit was good, employment was never wanting, and on all hands there was no lack of either money or good will."
19508,"""It is now high time that I should explain to your Excellencies the object of my perilous voyage."
19509,"We knew that there was scarcely a chance for anything like complete success, and could not avoid hideous fears at possible grotesque results of partial animation."
19510,"Next morning it appeared as follows: 'We quote from ""The Tea Pot"" of yesterday the subjoined paragraph: ""Oh, yes Oh, we perceive Oh, no doubt Oh, my Oh, goodness Oh, tempora Oh, Moses"" Why, the fellow is all O That accounts for his reasoning in a circle, and explains why there is neither beginning nor end to him, nor to anything he says."
19511,The chimerical aspect of their terror was gone.
19512,"Finally, by dint of great perseverance, they traced him to a garret in an old house of seven stories, in an alley called Flatzplatz, and, coming upon him suddenly, found him, as they imagined, in the midst of his counterfeiting operations."
19513,In reading the above sentence a curious apothegm of an old weather beaten Dutch navigator comes full upon my recollection.
19514,It requires more philosophy than I possess to bear this injustice with patience.
19515,"Horrible, most horrible I veil my eyes in terror of the change, and gushing tears bear witness to my sympathy for this unimaginable ruin."
19516,We the besiegers were in the comparison little affected by these evils.
19517,"""Wal, Sir, it seems by the time Obed knowed them islanders they was all full o' fish blood from them deep water things."
19518,Against the new masonry I re erected the old rampart of bones.
19519,I at length felt that I was free.
19520,"We were not, as I have said, in any sense childishly superstitious, but scientific study and reflection had taught us that the known universe of three dimensions embraces the merest fraction of the whole cosmos of substance and energy."
19521,"His full name long and pompous according to the custom of an age which had lost the trinomial simplicity of classic Roman nomenclature is stated by Von Schweinkopf to have been Caius Anicius Magnus Furius Camillus Æmilianus Cornelius Valerius Pompeius Julius Ibidus; though Littlewit rejects Æmilianus and adds Claudius Decius Junianus; whilst Bêtenoir differs radically, giving the full name as Magnus Furius Camillus Aurelius Antoninus Flavius Anicius Petronius Valentinianus Aegidus Ibidus."
19522,"Whence he had come, no one could tell."
19523,"Once more came the voice of my friend, still hoarse with fear, and now apparently tinged with despair: ""I can't tell you, Carter It's too utterly beyond thought I dare not tell you no man could know it and live Great God I never dreamed of THIS"" Stillness again, save for my now incoherent torrent of shuddering inquiry."
19524,The whole project was thus a complete failure.
19525,"There is a meaning in the eye of love; a cadence in its voice, an irradiation in its smile, the talisman of whose enchantments one only can possess; its spirit is elemental, its essence single, its divinity an unit."
19526,"I HAVE lingered thus long on the extreme bank, the wasting shoal that stretched into the stream of life, dallying with the shadow of death."
19527,"I practised for some time by the borders of a well frequented marsh; herein, however, having no reference to a similar proceeding of Demosthenes, but from a design peculiarly and conscientiously my own."
19528,It conveyed to my soul the idea of revolution perhaps from its association in fancy with the burr of a mill wheel.
19529,"""Great man"" said Bentley."
19530,"""After some weeks my wound healed, and I continued my journey."
19531,His ordinary occupations were neglected or forgotten.
19532,"And then the music ceased, as I have told; and the evolutions of the waltzers were quieted; and there was an uneasy cessation of all things as before."
19533,"But when the echoes had fully ceased, a light laughter at once pervaded the assembly; the musicians looked at each other and smiled as if at their own nervousness and folly, and made whispering vows, each to the other, that the next chiming of the clock should produce in them no similar emotion; and then, after the lapse of sixty minutes, which embrace three thousand and six hundred seconds of the Time that flies, there came yet another chiming of the clock, and then were the same disconcert and tremulousness and meditation as before."
19534,"Some particulars of the descent were communicated, however, by Mr. Ainsworth to Mr. Forsyth."
19535,"We examined the moss between the bricks, and found it undisturbed."""
19536,"But it will please me to see you each day to listen to the public voice praising you; to keep up your paternal love for our girl; to hear your voice; to know that I am near you, though you are no longer mine."
19537,"""And what is that?"" ""If I do make it my choice, then you shall know; at present I dare not speak, even think of it."""
19538,"He vows that I was broken down with nervous strain, and badly in need of the long vacation on full pay which he so generously gave me."
19539,"For three days the snow fell, ice stopped the current of the rivers, and the birds flew out from crackling branches of the frost whitened trees."
19540,The process of unearthing was slow and sordid it might have been gruesomely poetical if we had been artists instead of scientists and we were glad when our spades struck wood.
19541,"Some five or six volumes, just from the hands of the binder, we carefully probed, longitudinally, with the needles."""
19542,"""My dear Child ""I have betrayed your confidence; I have endeavoured to pollute your mind, and have made your innocent heart acquainted with the looks and language of unlawful and monstrous passion."
19543,I instantly wrote to Geneva; nearly two months have elapsed since the departure of my letter.
19544,"But I was at once startled and enchanted by my sudden extension of vision, when the curtain, which had been drawn before the intellectual world, was withdrawn, and I saw the universe, not only as it presented itself to my outward senses, but as it had appeared to the wisest among men."
19545,It was then seven o'clock on Saturday evening.
19546,"My life had hitherto been remarkably secluded and domestic, and this had given me invincible repugnance to new countenances."
19547,Where did he go sometimes in the night?
19548,I do not think that many of Sheehan's regular patrons will ever forget the day that young Alfred Trever came.
19549,"But it was not so; I was the same in strength, in earnest craving for sympathy, in my yearning for active exertion."
19550,"He then took the book himself, and read me a chapter aloud."
19551,"""Adolphe Le Bon, clerk to Mignaud et Fils, deposes that on the day in question, about noon, he accompanied Madame L'Espanaye to her residence with the francs, put up in two bags."
19552,But of the character of his remarks at the periods in question an example will best convey the idea.
19553,"He notes every variation of face as the play progresses, gathering a fund of thought from the differences in the expression of certainty, of surprise, of triumph, or of chagrin."
19554,"They admitted they had been drunk, but both vowed they had seen a crazily dressed trio furtively entering the dark passageway."
19555,"The rays of the newly risen sun poured in upon the whole, through windows, formed each of a single pane of crimson tinted glass."
19556,"To the north on the craggy precipice a few paces from the verge up sprang the magnificent trunks of numerous hickories, black walnuts, and chestnuts, interspersed with occasional oak, and the strong lateral branches thrown out by the walnuts especially, spread far over the edge of the cliff."
19557,The frauds of the banks of course I couldn't help.
19558,"He was attired, as I had expected, in a costume altogether similar to my own; wearing a Spanish cloak of blue velvet, begirt about the waist with a crimson belt sustaining a rapier."
19559,"When a fumbling came in the nearer casements he crept around to the west again, flattening himself against the wall beside the now opened windows."
19560,"But then there is the tone laconic, or curt, which has lately come much into use."
19561,"Average people in society and business New England's traditional ""salt of the earth"" gave an almost completely negative result, though scattered cases of uneasy but formless nocturnal impressions appear here and there, always between March d and April nd the period of young Wilcox's delirium."
19562,The modes and sources of this kind of error are well typified in the contemplation of the heavenly bodies.
19563,Yet from whom has not that rude hand rent away some dear connection?
19564,"Almighty God no, no They heard they suspected they knew they were making a mockery of my horror this I thought, and this I think."
19565,"I hope you have not been so foolish as to take offence at any little brusquerie of mine; but no, that is improbable."
19566,"These reflections made our legislators pause, before they could decide on the laws to be put in force."
19567,Because there were some considerations of deep interest beyond.
19568,"Before going in we walked up the street, turned down an alley, and then, again turning, passed in the rear of the building Dupin, meanwhile examining the whole neighborhood, as well as the house, with a minuteness of attention for which I could see no possible object."
19569,"Once my fancy was soothed with dreams of virtue, of fame, and of enjoyment."
19570,"Nay, you may have met with another whom you may love; and considering yourself as bound in honour to Elizabeth, this struggle may occasion the poignant misery which you appear to feel."" ""My dear father, reassure yourself."
19571,"My watch was still going, and told me that the hour was past noon."
19572,"But these and other difficulties attending respiration, as they were by no means so great as to put me in peril of my life, I determined to endure as I best could, in consideration of my leaving them behind me momently in my approach to the denser strata near the moon."
19573,"Stress of weather drove us up the Adriatic Gulph; and, our vessel being hardly fitted to weather a storm, we took refuge in the port of Ancona."
19574,"I could have fancied, while I looked at it, that some eminent landscape painter had built it with his brush."
19575,The lids clenched themselves together as if in a spasm.
19576,"Mais il faut agir that is to say, a Frenchman never faints outright."
19577,"For an item of news like this, it strikes us it was very coolly received."""
19578,"He laid a gnarled claw on my shoulder, and it seemed to me that its shaking was not altogether that of mirth."
